Note=<a href="https://fortheweb.webfoundation.org">GO TO WEBFOUNDATION.ORG</a>

sec=<center>{Core.Sec}</center><ul type=none><li>{Gov.Sec}<li>{Bus.Sec}<li>{Citizen.Sec}</ul>{00.sec}

Ti=Contract for the Web 

Core.Ti=CORE PRINCIPLES

Core.sec=The web was designed to bring people together and make knowledge freely available. Everyone has a role to play to ensure the web serves humanity. By committing to the following principles, governments, companies and citizens around the world can help protect the open web as a public good and a basic right for everyone.

Core.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

Gov.Ti=GOVERNMENTS WILL

Gov.1.sec=Ensure everyone can connect to the internet so that anyone, no matter who they are or where they live, can participate actively online.

Gov.2.sec=Keep all of the internet available, all of the time so that no one is denied their right to full internet access.

Gov.3.sec=Respect people’s fundamental right to privacy so everyone can use the internet freely, safely and without fear.

Gov.=[G/Z/ol-none/s3]

Bus.Ti=COMPANIES WILL

Bus.1.sec=Make the internet affordable and accessible to everyone so that no one is excluded from using and shaping the web.

Bus.2.sec=Respect consumers’ privacy and personal data so people are in control of their lives online.

Bus.3.sec=Develop technologies that support the best in humanity and challenge the worst so the web really is a public good that puts people first.

Bus.=[G/Z/ol-none/s3]

Citizen.Ti=CITIZENS WILL

Citizen.1.sec=Be creators and collaborators on the web so the web has rich and relevant content for everyone.

Citizen.2.sec=Build strong communities that respect civil discourse and human dignity so that everyone feels safe and welcome online.

Citizen.3.sec=Fight for the web so the web remains open and a global public resource for people everywhere, now and in the future.

Citizen.=[G/Z/ol-none/s3]

00.sec=We commit to uphold these principles and to engage in a deliberative process to build a full “Contract for the Web”, which will set out the roles and responsibilities of governments, companies and citizens. The challenges facing the web today are daunting and affect us in all our lives, not just when we are online. But if we work together and each of us takes responsibility for our actions, we can protect a web that truly is for everyone.

=[G/Z/ol/Base]

Note=©2008-2018 World Wide Web Foundation. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International Licence