1.0.sec=This agreement (“Agreement”) is entered into on {EffectiveDate.YMD} by and between:

1.1.sec=The park owner (“Lessor”) of {Park.Name} (the "Park"), located at: {Park.Adr.1,2}, and

1.2.sec=Tenant(s): {Tenant.Names} (severally and collectively “Tenant”). 

1.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s2]

2.0.sec=This Agreement is for the rental of Space number {Space.#} (the  “Space”) in the Park, from Lessor to Tenant, for recreational vehicle tenancy.

2.1.sec=The term of rental is {RentalTerm.sec}.

2.2.sec=The permitted household members are the Tenant(s) and (list everyone else: {Tenant.HouseholdNames}

RentalTerm.Alt1.sec={RentalTerm.MonthToMonth.sec}

RentalTerm.MonthToMonth.sec={Space.RentalTerm.Month} month to month

RentalTerm.Alt2.sec={RentalTerm.MultipleMonths.sec}

RentalTerm.MultipleMonths.sec={Space.RentalTerm.Months} (not to exceed 8 months), unless sooner terminated in accordance with the terms and conditions of this agreement

Intro.RentalTerm.SecName=Intro.RentalTerm

Space.RentalTerm.=[G/Z/Alt/2]

2.3.sec=The Security Deposit is: {Deposit.$}

2.4.sec=Beginning Monthly Rent: {Space.Rent.$} (Please note: rent may be increased during term with 30 days’ notice).

2.=[G/Z/ol-none/s4]

3.Ti=RECREATIONAL VEHICLE INFORMATION

3.0.sec=Information on Recreational Vehicle Described in this Agreement:

3.1.sec=Registered Owner:	{Unit.RegisteredOwner.Name.Full}							

3.2.sec=Address:	{Unit.RegisteredOwner.Adr.1,2}					

3.3.sec=Telephone Number: {Unit.RegisteredOwner.Phone}					

3.4.sec=Legal Owner:	{Unit.LegalOwner.Name.Full}			

3.5.sec=Address:	{Unit.LegalOwner.Adr.1,2}			

3.6.sec=Telephone: {Unit.LegalOwner.Phone}							

3.7.sec=Make of RV	{Unit.Manufacturer.Name}							

3.8.sec=Year/Model of RV	{Unit.Model}						

3.9.sec=Vehicle ID Nos. {Unit.ID.#}							

3.10.sec=License/Decal Nos. {Unit.License.#}

3.=[G/Z/ol-none/s10]

4.sec=TENANT AGREES TO RENT THE SPACE AT THE ADDRESS ABOVE, FOR THE PERIOD AND ACCORDING TO THE TERMS SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT. TENANT MUST PROVIDE THEIR OWN RECREATIONAL VEHICLE AND IS SOLELY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.

5.sec=NOTE: REMOVAL OF A RECREATIONAL VEHICLE DURING FIRST 30 DAYS OF OCCUPANCY: Any Tenant who fails to pay for his or her occupancy in the park or who fails to comply with reasonable written rules and regulations of the park within the first thirty (30) days of occupancy, given upon registration, or subsequently legally established may, in addition to all other rights and remedies of the Lessor, have his or her recreational vehicle removed from the park as provided for in Civil Code §799.22 upon 72 hours of written notice.  The telephone number of the local law enforcement agency is: {Park.LawEnforcement.Phone.#}

=[G/Z/paras/s5]
