Ti=Goals and Principles

1.Ti=Goals

1.0.sec=The association will strive towards:

1.1.sec=The transition to permissionless governance and consensus node operation, lowering the barriers to entry for participation and reducing the reliance on Founding Members.

1.2.sec=Minimizing the association's role as manager of the Libra Reserve by fully automating reserve management.

1.3.sec=Over time, the objective is for the association's primary role to be the coordination of the open-source community to define and develop the technical roadmap of the Libra network.

1.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

2.Ti=Principles

2.0.sec=Principles of the association's governance :

2.1.Ti=Mission:

2.1.sec=Create a simple global currency and financial infrastructure that empowers billions of people. To accomplish its mission, the association aspires to create tight partnerships with organizations whose goal is to promote financial inclusion and with developers and researchers who wish to contribute their talent to the development of applications and tools that will bring the vision to life.

2.2.Ti=Decision making:

2.2.1.Ti=Power of validators:

2.2.1.sec=Validator nodes, represented in the council, have the ultimate power. The council delegates many of its executive powers to the association's management but retains authority to override delegated decisions and keep key decisions to itself, with the most important ones requiring a greater than two-thirds supermajority.

2.2.2.Ti=Proportional power:

2.2.2.sec=The voting powers in the council are proportional to stake (initially in the Libra Investment Token and, in the future, in Libra), which is a reflection of the level of commitment of the member (validator node) toward the network. However, voting rights are capped for any one Founding Member to avoid concentration of power.

2.2.3.Ti=Open and collaborative:

2.2.3.sec=Decision making is transparent to the larger community and collaborative amongst members (validator nodes).

2.2.4.Ti=Efficient:

2.2.4.sec=The association aims to make decision making as streamlined as possible and will leverage its members for the execution of its decisions to the extent possible.

2.2.=[G/Z/ol/4]

2.3.Ti=Technology:

2.3.1.Ti=Open source:

2.3.1.sec=The code and specification for the technology behind the Libra Blockchain will be open source and advanced by an open-source developer and research community.

2.3.2.Ti=Development:

2.3.2.sec=The association will fund and foster new research and development in the space to ensure that the Libra Blockchain is being updated to best serve its mission and constituents.

2.3.=[G/Z/ol/2]

2.=[G/Z/ol/3]

3.Ti=Reserve Management

3.1.sec=The Libra Reserve is managed by the association with the goal of value preservation.

3.2.sec=As fiat money enters the economy, the reserve — a basket of currencies and other assets — grows, and the association mints Libra accordingly.

3.3.sec=The association is capable of burning Libra when it serves as “buyer of last resort” in exchange for other assets in the reserve.

3.4.sec=The activities of the association are governed and constrained by a Reserve Management Policy that can only be changed by a supermajority of the association members.

3.=[G/Z/ol/s4]

=[G/Z/ol-AA/3]
