Ti=General Provisions

sec=<ol class="secs-and"><li>{Injunction.Sec}<li>{Entire.Sec}<li>{Amend.Sec}<li>{Sever.Sec}<li>{Waive.Sec}<li>{Assign.Sec}<li>{Notice.Sec}<li>{Law.Sec}<li>{Forum.Sec}<li>{Counterpart.Sec}</ol>

Injunction.Ti=Injunctive Relief

Injunction.sec={_Client} and {_ABC} each recognize that a breach of this {_Agreement} may cause irreparable harm to the other party and that actual damages may be difficult to ascertain and in any event may be inadequate. Accordingly, {_Client} and {_ABC} agree that in the event of such a breach, the injured party may be entitled to injunctive relief in addition to such other legal or equitable remedies as may be available.

Injunction.=[G/Z/Base]

Entire.Ti=Entire Agreement

Entire.sec=This {_Agreement} expresses the final, complete, and exclusive agreement between {_Client} and {_ABC}, and supersedes any and all prior or contemporaneous written and oral agreements, arrangements, negotiations, communications, course of dealing, or understanding between {_Client} and {_ABC} relating to its subject matter.

Entire.=[G/Z/Base]

Amend.Ti=Amendment

Amend.sec=This {_Agreement} may be amended only as stated in and by a writing signed by both {_Client} and {_ABC} which recites that it is an amendment to this {_Agreement}.

Amend.=[G/Z/Base]

Sever.Ti=Severability

Sever.sec=If any provision in this {_Agreement} is held invalid or unenforceable, the other provisions will remain enforceable, and the invalid or unenforceable provision will be considered modified so that it is valid and enforceable to the maximum extent permitted by law.

Sever.=[G/Z/Base]

Waive.Ti=Waiver

Waive.sec=Any waiver under this {_Agreement} must be in writing and signed by the party granting the waiver. Waiver of any breach or provision of this {_Agreement} will not be considered a waiver of any later breach or of the right to enforce any provision of this {_Agreement}.

Waive.=[G/Z/Base]

Assign.Ti=Assignment

Assign.sec=Neither {_Client} nor {_ABC} may assign its rights or delegate its duties under this {_Agreement} to anyone else without the prior written consent of the other party, except that either may assign all of its rights and obligations under this {_Agreement} without the other’s prior written consent in connection with a merger, acquisition, reorganization, sale or transfer of substantially all assets, or other operation of law.

Assign.=[G/Z/Base]

Notice.Ti=Notices

Notice.sec=Notices and consents under this {_Agreement} must be in writing and delivered by mail, hand delivery, fax, or e-mail to the addresses set out below. These addresses may be changed by written notice to the other party.

Notice.=[G/Z/Base]

Note=HazardJ Split Governing Law and Jurisdiction

Law.Ti=Governing Law

Law.sec=This {_Agreement} will be governed by California law.

Law.=[G/Z/Base]

Forum.Ti=Jurisdiction

Forum.sec=[{_Client} and {_ABC} consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of the state and federal courts for ______, California.]

Forum.=[G/Z/Base]

Counterpart.Ti=Counterparts

Counterpart.sec=This {_Agreement} may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which will be deemed an original and all of which will be taken together and deemed to be one instrument. Transmission by fax or PDF of executed counterparts will constitute effective delivery.

Counterpart.=[G/Z/Base]

=[G/Z/Base]
