Ti=Construction

1.sec=Section, Schedule [and paragraph] headings shall not affect the interpretation of this {_Agreement}.

2.sec=A person includes a natural person, corporate or unincorporated body (whether or not having separate legal personality).

3.sec=The Schedules form part of this {_Agreement} and shall have effect as if set out in full in the body of this {_Agreement}. Any reference to this {_Agreement} includes the Schedules.

4.sec=A reference to a company shall include any company, corporation or other body corporate, wherever and however incorporated or established.

5.sec=Unless the context otherwise requires, words in the singular shall include the plural and in the plural shall include the singular.

6.sec=Unless the context otherwise requires, a reference to one gender shall include a reference to the other genders. 

7.sec=This {_Agreement} shall be binding on, and enure to the benefit of, the parties to this {_Agreement} and their respective personal representatives, successors and permitted assigns, and references to any party shall include that party's personal representatives, successors and permitted assigns.

8.sec=A reference to a statute or statutory provision is a reference to it as [amended, extended or re-enacted from time to time OR it is in force as at the date of this {_Agreement}].

9.sec=A reference to a statute or statutory provision shall include all subordinate legislation made [from time to time OR as at the date of this {_Agreement}] under that statute or statutory provision.

10.sec=A reference to writing or written includes fax [and email OR but not email].

11.sec=Any obligation on a party not to do something includes an obligation not to allow that thing to be done.

12.sec=A reference to this {_Agreement} or to any other agreement or document referred to in this {_Agreement} is a reference of this {_Agreement} or such other agreement or document as varied or novated (in each case, other than in breach of the provisions of this {_Agreement}) from time to time.

13.sec=References to Sections [and Schedules] are to the Sections [and Schedules] of this {_Agreement} [and references to paragraphs are to paragraphs of the relevant Schedule].

14.sec=Any words following the terms including, include, in particular, for example or any similar expression shall be construed as illustrative and shall not limit the sense of the words, description, definition, phrase or term preceding those terms.

=[G/Z/ol/s14]
