Ti=INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY.

1.Ti=Company Ownership of Work Product.

CompanyOwnership.0.sec=“{DefT.Work_Product}” refers to computer software programs, other works of authorship, formulas, processes, compositions of matter, databases, mask works,  improvements, logos, symbols, designs, and other inventions that {_Consultant} makes, conceives, reduces to practice, or creates, either alone or jointly with others, for Company as part of {_Professional_Services}.

CompanyOwnership.1.Ti=Work-for-Hire.

CompanyOwnership.1.sec=To the extent permissible under applicable law, {_Work_Product} will be considered work made for hire pursuant to the U.S. Copyright Act, 17 U.S.C. §§ 101 et seq.

CompanyOwnership.2.Ti=Assignment.

Note=AssignNDA has an additional (ii) of "all goodwill associated with {_Work_Product}" which seems good and unobjectionable.

Note=CompanyOwnership.2.sec borrows from AssignNDA

Note=AssignNDA also has a "Backup License", "Prior Inventions", and "Moral Rights" sections. 

FurtherAssistance.Ti=Further Assistance.

FurtherAssistance.sec={_Consultant} shall help Company obtain and enforce patents, copyrights, and other legal protections for the {_Work_Product} in any and all jurisdictions throughout the world. {_Consultant} shall execute any documents Company reasonably requests for use in obtaining or enforcing such rights and protections. Company shall compensate {_Consultant} for time and expenses spent at Company’s request pursuant to this Section {FurtherAssistance.Xnum}, at {_Consultant}’s standard rates set forth in the most recent {_SoW}, or if none, at a reasonable rate, which the parties shall negotiate in good faith. {_Consultant} hereby appoints Company or its designated representative as {_Consultant}’s attorney-in-fact to execute documents on {_Consultant}’s behalf for the purposes set forth in this Section {FurtherAssistance.Xnum}.

FurtherAssistance.=[G/Z/Base]

sec=<ol><li>{CompanyOwnership.Sec}</li><li>{FurtherAssistance.Sec}</li></ol>

=[G/Z/Base]

=[G/TechContracts/Assignment-NDA/Sec/IP/0.md]

Note=This widget needs to be below the link immediately above, to avoid a default dummy key.

CompanyOwnership.=[G/Z/ol-a/2]

CompanyOwnership.Xnum={Xnum}.<a class='xref' href="{!!!}CompanyOwnership.Sec">1</a>

FurtherAssistance.Xnum={Xnum}.<a class='xref' href="{!!!}FurtherAssistance.Sec">2</a>