Model.Root={Content}

Content={MOU}

MOU=<center><h1>Memorandum Of Understanding</h1></center><p><br><br><br><br>BETWEEN<br><br>{P2.Nom}, located at:<br>{P2.Adresse.1}<br>{P2.Adresse.2}<br>{P2.Adresse.CP} {P2.Adresse.Ville}, {P2.Adresse.Pays}<br><br>Represented by : {P2.Rep1.Nom}, {P2.Rep1.Titre}<br><br>AND<br><br>{P1.Nom} {P1.FormeJuridique} located at: {P1.Adresse.1,3}<br>Represented by its {P1.Rep2.Titre}, {P1.Rep2.Nom}<br><br>Hereinafter referred to as <B>Company</B><p>The purpose of this Memorandum of Understanding ("MOU") is to define the mutual intentions of the parties relating to the matters described below, including the conditions for the integration and promotion in {Scope.Country} of the Company solution into {P2.Nom} offers. This MOU does not constitute a contract between the parties, but some of the key milestones and terms to be included in the final contract both parties will sign.</P><br><p><b>1.  BACKGROUND. </B></P>{P2.Background}{P1.Background}<br><p><b>2.  SCOPE OF WORK.</b></p>{MOU.Scope}<p>Both PARTIES ({P2.Nom} and Company) agree on the following framework as a basis for a partnership contract (THE CONTRACT) still to be discussed. </p><p>It is agreed that this MOU is not a binding contract, and shall not lead to any obligation for the PARTIES to sign a contract in the future.</p><p>However, PARTIES agree that this MOU intends to prepare a partnership in good faith, and will do their best to make this partnership happen before {MOU.TargetDate.MDY}.</p><p><b>a.  Revenue sharing and retainer</b></p><p>{MOU.TravelCostPaid}</p><p>{MOU.RevenueShare}</p><p><b>b.  Planning</b></p><p>{P2.Nom} intention is to launch Company first with the existing set of applications all over {Scope.Country} and then with customized applications for consumers, corporate customers and VIPs.</p><p><b>c.  Good Faith</b></p><p>Both PARTIES agree to enter this business discussion in good faith, and {P2.Nom} objective is to succeed in launching Company solution in {Scope.Country} as quickly as possible.</p><br><p><b>3.  CONFIDENTIALITY.</b></p><p>Both PARTIES agree to keep every discussion and document totally confidential from the day they started to discuss until they sign THE CONTRACT and start to actually work together. No press release or other public announcement of either the existence or terms of this MOU will be made without the express written consent of both parties and the confidentiality provisions of the coming NDA will continue apply.</p><br><p><b>4.  GENERAL.</b></p><p>Apart from the confidentiality obligations and choice of Law and jurisdiction, this MOU does not impose any obligation on any party, including, without limitation, any obligation to refrain from entering into competing arrangements with others, bargain in good faith or in any way other than at arms length. Neither party may rely on anything inconsistent with this paragraph to impose such an obligation. </p><p>Each party can terminate pursuit of the intentions of this MOU at any time and without preconditions or liability by providing a notice to the other party. This termination can occur without prejudice to the provisions related to confidentiality.</p><p>This MOU will be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws of {MOU.Jurisdiction} with respect to any dispute arising under this MOU.</p><p>The above correctly sets forth our intentions.<br><br><br><br>Initials on each page for approval </p><br><br>{Signature.Block}  

P2.Background={P2.Nom} works towards TBC</p>

P1.Background=<p>Company is headquartered in {P1.Adresse.Pays} and dedicated to providing solutions to TBC</p>  

MOU.Scope=<p>{P2.Nom} and Company agree to the scope of work as described in Addendum A, aimed at partnering in {Scope.Country}, to provide together TBC</p>