Ti=UNCITRAL Model Law on Electronic Transferable Records 

Ch.1.Ti=Chapter I. General provisions 

1.Ti=Article  1. Scope of application 

1.1.sec=This Law applies to {_electronic_transferable_record}s. 

1.2.sec=Other than as provided for in this Law, nothing in this Law affects the application to an {_electronic_transferable_record} of any rule of law governing a {_transferable_document_or_instrument} including any rule of law applicable to consumer protection. 

1.3.sec=This Law does not apply to securities, such as shares and bonds, and other investment instruments, and to […].{FtNt.1.Xnum} 

1.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

2.Ti=Article  2. Definitions 

2.0.sec=For the purposes of this Law: 

2.1.sec=“{DefT.electronic_record}” means information generated, communicated, received or stored by electronic means, including, where appropriate, all information logically associated with or otherwise linked together so as to become part of the record, whether generated contemporaneously or not; 

2.2.sec=“{DefT.electronic_transferable_record}” is an {_electronic_record} that complies with the requirements of article 10; 

2.3.sec=“{DefT.transferable_document_or_instrument}” means a document or instrument issued on paper that entitles the holder to claim the performance of the obligation indicated in the document or instrument and to transfer the right to performance of the obligation indicated in the document or instrument through the transfer of that document or instrument. 

2.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

3.Ti=Article  3. Interpretation 

3.1.sec=This Law is derived from a model law of international origin. In the interpretation of this Law, regard is to be had to the international origin and to the need to promote uniformity in its application. 

3.2.sec=Questions concerning matters governed by this Law which are not expressly settled in it are to be settled in conformity with the general principles on which this Law is based. 

3.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

4.Ti=Article  4. Party autonomy and privity of contract 

4.1.sec=The parties may derogate from or vary by agreement the following provisions of this Law: […].{FtNt.2.Xnum} 

4.2.sec=Such an agreement does not affect the rights of any person that is not a party to that agreement. 

4.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

5.Ti=Article  5. Information requirements 

5.sec=Nothing in this Law affects the application of any rule of law that may require a person to disclose its identity, place of business or other information, or relieves a person from the legal consequences of making inaccurate, incomplete or false statements in that regard. 

6.Ti=Article  6. Additional information in {_electronic_transferable_record}s 

6.sec=Nothing in this Law precludes the inclusion of information in an {_electronic_transferable_record} in addition to that contained in a {_transferable_document_or_instrument}. 

7.Ti=Article  7. Legal recognition of an {_electronic_transferable_record} 

7.1.sec=An {_electronic_transferable_record} shall not be denied legal effect, validity or enforceability on the sole ground that it is in electronic form. 

7.2.sec=Nothing in this Law requires a person to use an {_electronic_transferable_record} without that person’s consent. 

7.3.sec=The consent of a person to use an {_electronic_transferable_record} may be inferred from the person’s conduct. 

7.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

Ch.1.sec=<ul type=none><li>{1.Sec}</li><li>{2.Sec}</li><li>{3.Sec}</li><li>{4.Sec}</li><li>{5.Sec}</li><li>{6.Sec}</li><li>{7.Sec}</li></ul>

Ch.2.Ti=Chapter II. Provisions on functional  equivalence 

8.Ti=Article  8. Writing 

8.sec=Where the law requires that information should be in writing, that requirement is met with respect to an {_electronic_transferable_record} if the information contained therein is accessible so as to be usable for subsequent reference. 

9.Ti=Article  9. Signature 

9.sec=Where the law requires or permits a signature of a person, that requirement is met by an {_electronic_transferable_record} if a reliable method is used to identify that person and to indicate that person’s intention in respect of the information contained in the {_electronic_transferable_record}. 

10.Ti=Article  10. Transferable documents or instruments 

10.1.0.sec=Where the law requires a {_transferable_document_or_instrument}, that requirement is met by an {_electronic_record} if: 

10.1.1.sec=The {_electronic_record} contains the information that would be required to be contained in a {_transferable_document_or_instrument}; and 

10.1.2.0.sec=A reliable method is used:  

10.1.2.1.sec=To identify that {_electronic_record} as the {_electronic_transferable_record}; 

10.1.2.2.sec=To render that {_electronic_record} capable of being subject to control from its creation until it ceases to have any effect or validity; and 

10.1.2.3.sec=To retain the integrity of that {_electronic_record}. 

10.1.2.=[G/Z/ol-i/s3]

10.1.=[G/Z/ol-a/s2]

10.2.sec=The criterion for assessing integrity shall be whether information contained in the {_electronic_transferable_record}, including any authorized change that arises from its creation until it ceases to have any effect or validity, has remained complete and unaltered apart from any change which arises in the normal course of communication, storage and display. 

10.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

11.Ti=Article  11. Control 

11.1.0.sec=Where the law requires or permits the possession of a {_transferable_document_or_instrument}, that requirement is met with respect to an {_electronic_transferable_record} if a reliable method is used: 

11.1.1.sec=To establish exclusive control of that {_electronic_transferable_record} by a person; and 

11.1.2.sec=To identify that person as the person in control. 

11.1.=[G/Z/ol-a/s2]

11.2.sec=Where the law requires or permits transfer of possession of a {_transferable_document_or_instrument}, that requirement is met with respect to an {_electronic_transferable_record} through the transfer of control over the {_electronic_transferable_record}. 

11.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

Ch.2.sec=<ul type=none><li>{8.Sec}</li><li>{9.Sec}</li><li>{10.Sec}</li><li>{11.Sec}</li></ul>

Ch.3.Ti=Chapter III. Use of {_electronic_transferable_record}s 

12.Ti=Article  12. General reliability standard 

12.0.sec=For the purposes of articles {9.Xnum}, {10.Xnum}, {11.Xnum}, {13.Xnum}, {16.Xnum}, {17.Xnum} and {18.Xnum}, the method referred to shall be: 

12.1.sec=As reliable as appropriate for the fulfilment of the function for which the method is being used, in the light of all relevant circumstances, which may include: 

12.1.1.sec=Any operational rules relevant to the assessment of reliability; 

12.1.2.sec=The assurance of data integrity; 

12.1.3.sec=The ability to prevent unauthorized access to and use of the system; 

12.1.4.sec=The security of hardware and software; 

12.1.5.sec=The regularity and extent of audit by an independent body; 

12.1.6.sec=The existence of a declaration by a supervisory body, an accreditation body or a voluntary scheme regarding the reliability of the method; 

12.1.7.sec=Any applicable industry standard; or 

12.1.=[G/Z/ol-i/s7] 

12.2.sec=Proven in fact to have fulfilled the function by itself or together with further evidence. 

12.=[G/Z/ol-a/s2] 

13.Ti=Article  13. Indication of time and place in {_electronic_transferable_record}s 

13.sec=Where the law requires or permits the indication of time or place with respect to a {_transferable_document_or_instrument}, that requirement is met if a reliable method is used to indicate that time or place with respect to an {_electronic_transferable_record}. 

14.Ti=Article  14. Place of business 

14.1.0.sec=A location is not a place of business merely because that is: 

14.1.1.sec=Where equipment and technology supporting an information system used by a party in connection with {_electronic_transferable_record}s are located; or 

14.1.2.sec=Where the information system may be accessed by other parties. 

14.1.=[G/Z/ol-i/s2] 

14.2.sec=The sole fact that a party makes use of an electronic address or other element of an information system connected to a specific country does not create a presumption that its place of business is located in that country. 

14.=[G/Z/ol-a/s2] 

15.Ti=Article  15. Endorsement 

15.sec=Where the law requires or permits the endorsement in any form of a {_transferable_document_or_instrument}, that requirement is met with respect to an {_electronic_transferable_record} if the information required for the endorsement is included in  the {_electronic_transferable_record} and that information is compliant with the requirements set forth in articles {8.Xnum} and {9.Xnum}. 

16.Ti=Article  16. Amendment 

16.sec=Where the law requires or permits the amendment of a {_transferable_document_or_instrument}, that requirement is met with respect to an {_electronic_transferable_record} if a reliable method is used for amendment of information in the {_electronic_transferable_record} so that the amended information is identified as such. 

17.Ti=Article  17. Replacement of a {_transferable_document_or_instrument} with an {_electronic_transferable_record} 

17.1.sec=An {_electronic_transferable_record} may replace a {_transferable_document_or_instrument} if a reliable method for the change of medium is used. 

17.2.sec=For the change of medium to take effect, a statement indicating a change of medium shall be inserted in the {_electronic_transferable_record}. 

17.3.sec=Upon issuance of the {_electronic_transferable_record} in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2, the {_transferable_document_or_instrument} shall be made inoperative and ceases to have any effect or validity. 

17.4.sec=A change of medium in accordance with paragraphs {17.1.Xnum} and {17.2.Xnum} shall not affect the rights and obligations of the parties. 

17.=[G/Z/ol/s4]

18.Ti=Article  18. Replacement of an {_electronic_transferable_record} with a {_transferable_document_or_instrument} 

18.1.sec=A {_transferable_document_or_instrument} may replace an {_electronic_transferable_record} if a reliable method for the change of medium is used. 

18.2.sec=For the change of medium to take effect, a statement indicating a change of medium shall be inserted in the {_transferable_document_or_instrument}. 

18.3.sec=Upon issuance of the {_transferable_document_or_instrument} in accordance with paragraphs {18.1.Xnum} and {18.2.Xnum}, the {_electronic_transferable_record} shall be made inoperative and ceases to have any effect or validity. 

18.4.sec=A change of medium in accordance with paragraphs {18.1.Xnum} and {18.2.Xnum} shall not affect the rights and obligations of the parties. 

18.=[G/Z/ol/s4]

Ch.3.sec=<ul type=none><li>{12.Sec}</li><li>{13.Sec}</li><li>{14.Sec}</li><li>{15.Sec}</li><li>{16.Sec}</li><li>{17.Sec}</li><li>{18.Sec}</li></ul>

Ch.4.Ti=Chapter IV. Cross-border recognition of {_electronic_transferable_record}s 

19.Ti=Article  19. Non-discrimination of foreign {_electronic_transferable_record}s 

19.1.sec=An {_electronic_transferable_record} shall not be denied legal effect, validity or enforceability on the sole ground that it was issued or used abroad. 

19.2.sec=Nothing in this Law affects the application to {_electronic_transferable_record}s of rules of private international law governing a {_transferable_document_or_instrument}. 

19.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

Ch.4.sec=<ul type=none><li>{19.Sec}</li></ul>

Ch.=[G/Z/ol/4]

r00t={Ch.Sec}<br>{FtNt.Sec}

=[G/Z/ol/19]

FtNt.Ti=Footnotes

FtNt.1.sec=The enacting jurisdiction may consider including a reference to: (a) documents and instruments that may be considered transferable, but that should not fall under the scope of the Model Law; (b) documents and instruments falling under the scope of the Convention Providing a Uniform Law for Bills of Exchange and Promissory Notes (Geneva, 1930) and the Convention Providing a Uniform Law for Cheques (Geneva, 1931); and (c) {_electronic_transferable_record}s existing only in electronic form.


FtNt.2.sec=The enacting jurisdiction may consider which provisions of the Model Law, if any, the parties may derogate from or vary by agreement.

FtNt.=[G/Z/ol/s2]


Note=Defined Terms:

_electronic_record=<a class='definedterm' href='{!!!}DefT.electronic_record'>electronic record</a>

_Electronic_record=<a class='definedterm' href='{!!!}DefT.electronic_record'>Electronic record</a>

DefT.electronic_record={_Electronic_record}

_electronic_transferable_record=<a class='definedterm' href='{!!!}DefT.electronic_transferable_record'>electronic transferable record</a>

_Electronic_transferable_record=<a class='definedterm' href='{!!!}DefT.electronic_transferable_record'>Electronic transferable record</a>

DefT.electronic_transferable_record={_Electronic_transferable_record}


_transferable_document_or_instrument=<a class='definedterm' href='{!!!}DefT.transferable_document_or_instrument'>transferable document or instrument</a>

_Transferable_document_or_instrument=<a class='definedterm' href='{!!!}DefT.transferable_document_or_instrument'>Transferable document or instrument</a>

DefT.transferable_document_or_instrument={_Transferable_document_or_instrument}


Note=Cross references:

8.Xnum=<a class='xref' href='{!!!}8.Sec'>8</a>
9.Xnum=<a class='xref' href='{!!!}9.Sec'>9</a>
10.Xnum=<a class='xref' href='{!!!}10.Sec'>10</a>
11.Xnum=<a class='xref' href='{!!!}11.Sec'>11</a>
13.Xnum=<a class='xref' href='{!!!}13.Sec'>13</a>
16.Xnum=<a class='xref' href='{!!!}16.Sec'>16</a>
17.1.Xnum={17.Xnum}.<a class='xref' href='{!!!}17.1.sec'>1</a>
17.2.Xnum={18.Xnum}.<a class='xref' href='{!!!}17.2.sec'>2</a>
17.Xnum=<a class='xref' href='{!!!}17.Sec'>17</a>
18.1.Xnum={18.Xnum}.<a class='xref' href='{!!!}18.1.sec'>1</a>
18.2.Xnum={18.Xnum}.<a class='xref' href='{!!!}18.2.sec'>2</a>
18.Xnum=<a class='xref' href='{!!!}18.Sec'>18</a>
FtNt.1.Xnum=<sup><a class='xref' href='{!!!}FtNt.1.sec'>1</a></sup>
FtNt.2.Xnum=<sup><a class='xref' href='{!!!}FtNt.2.sec'>2</a></sup>

!!!=#
