
Ti=Your participation if something bad happens

Deductible.Ti=AKA your ‘deductible.’ It is now set to {CoverageOption.Deductible.$}.

Deductible.1.sec=A deductible is an amount that defines your participation every time potential damage is claimed. It’s called a deductible, because it’s deducted from your claim payment.

Deductible.2.sec=For example, if you have an approved claim that amounts to {CoverageOption.Deductible.ExampleTotal.$}, we will end up paying you {CoverageOption.Deductible.ExampleNet.$} (after we deduct the {CoverageOption.Deductible.$} ‘deductible’). It also means there’s no point in filing claims for anything less than the {CoverageOption.Deductible.$}.

Deductible.3.sec=Opting for a higher deductible means you’re taking more of the risk on yourself, so it is often a way to lower your monthly payments. You can <a href="In the real doc, this will open our Live Policy editor">increase or decrease your deductible</a>... It’s up to you.

Deductible.=[G/Z/ol/s3]


Cooperate.Ti=Your obligations if something bad happens

Cooperate.0.sec=### You are required to take immediate steps to minimize damages, notify us right away, and help with our investigation.

Cooperate.Step.Ti-And more specifically...

Cooperate.Step.1.sec=<a href="In the real doc, this will allow you to get in touch directly">Notify</a> us promptly of any damage or loss.

Cooperate.Step.2.sec=Call the authorities (e.g. police, fire department, or emergency medical services) or other people in a position to help (e.g. landlords or apartment managers).

Cooperate.Step.3.sec=Take reasonable steps to minimize the damage (e.g. try to put out the fire, call a plumber to prevent ongoing damage, move property, or people out of harm's way). You can include associated costs in your claim.

Cooperate.Step.4.sec=Take reasonable steps to recover your losses, including exhausting other insurance before making a claim with Lemonade (e.g. your travel insurance).

Cooperate.Step.5.sec=Provide us with the information and records we ask for as soon as possible (e.g. contact information for parties that may be involved, proof of ownership for high value items).

Cooperate.Step.6.sec=We may ask you to submit to examination under oath, or provide evidence or affidavits relating to your claim. We may also ask you to take other reasonable steps to ensure we have complete and truthful accounts of the loss and its circumstances.

Cooperate.Step.=[G/Z/ol/s6]

Cooperate.Else.Ti=This is important...

Cooperate.Else.1.sec=Failure to provide complete and truthful information at all times, including prior to the purchase of the policy or following a loss, or to comply with the above obligations, will be considered a breach of contract, and will void your coverage.

Cooperate.Else.2.sec=We may also be obligated to report it to federal and state authorities.

Cooperate.Else.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

Cooperate.sec=<ol><li>{Cooperate.Step.Sec}<li>{Cooperate.Else.Sec}</ol>

Cooperate.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

sec=<ol><li>{Deductible.Sec}<li>{Cooperate.Sec}</ol>

=[G/Z/ol/Base]
