Ti=Definitions

Data.sec="{_Data}" means the material you receive under the {_UDA} in modified or unmodified form, but not including {_Output}.

Comment=The term "Data" encompasses both the initial data made available to "you" as well as any later modifications made to that data by a Data Provider or a Downstream Recipient that redistributes the data. This also means that Downstream Recipients remain free to modify the data. Data specifically excludes Outputs.

Data_Provider.sec="{_Data_Provider}" means the source from which you receive the {_Data} and with whom you enter into the {_UDA}.

Downstream_Recipient.sec="{_Downstream_Recipient}" means any person or persons who receives the {_Data} directly or indirectly from you in accordance with the {_UDA}.

Output.sec="{_Output}" means the outcomes or results that you obtain from your use of {_Data} that do not include more than a de minimis portion of the {_Data} on which the use is based.  {_Output} may include de minimis portions of the {_Data} necessary to report on or explain use that has been conducted with the {_Data}, such as figures in scientific papers, but do not include more.  Artificial intelligence models trained on {_Data} (and which do not include more than a de minimis portion of {_Data}) are {_Output}.

Comment=The O-UDA defines “Output” to clarify that any AI model produced from the use of the Data (e.g., as a training set) should not typically be considered to be subject to the O-UDA's restrictions. The O-UDA considers that Outputs are not a "derivative" or a "modification" of the Data if they don't contain more than a de minimis portion of the Data. This is also intended to clarify that research papers and accompanying figures that may include only a de minimis part of the Data are not subject to any restriction in the O-UDA.

Upstream_Data_Provider.sec="{_Upstream_Data_Providers}" means the source or sources from which the {_Data_Provider} directly or indirectly received, under the terms of the {_UDA}, material that is included in the {_Data}.

sec=<ol><li>{Data.sec}</li><li>{Data_Provider.sec}</li><li>{Downstream_Recipient.sec}</li><li>{Output.sec}</li><li>{Upstream_Data_Provider.sec}</li></ol>

=[G/Z/Base]

