Ti=Voting

1.sec=While it is the goal of {_HLP} to operate as a consensus based community, if any decision requires a vote to move forward, the representatives of the {_Governing_Board}, {_TSC}, or Marketing Committee, as applicable, shall vote on a one vote per voting representative basis.

2.sec=Quorum for {_Governing_Board}, {_TSC}, or Marketing Committee meetings shall require two-thirds of the voting representatives. The {_Governing_Board}, {_TSC}, or Marketing Committee may continue to meet if quorum is not met, but shall be prevented from making any decisions at the meeting. Any {_Governing_Board} representative who fails to attend two consecutive {_Governing_Board} meetings will not be counted for purposes of determining quorum requirements as of the third consecutive meeting and until they next attend a {_Governing_Board} meeting.

3.sec=Except as provided in Section 13.d. and 14.a., decisions by vote at a meeting shall require a majority vote, provided quorum is met. Except as provided in Section
13.d. and 14.a., decisions by electronic vote without a meeting shall require a majority of all voting representatives.

4.sec=In the event of a tied vote with respect to an action that cannot be resolved by the {_Governing_Board}, the chair shall be entitled to refer the matter to the {_LF} for assistance in reaching a decision. For all decisions in the {_TSC}, Marketing Committee or other committee created by the {_Governing_Board}, if there is a tie vote, the matter shall be referred to the {_Governing_Board}.

5.sec=All resolutions proposed for adoption by the {_Governing_Board} at a meeting, excluding resolutions to adopt minutes, shall be circulated in draft form to the members of the {_Governing_Board} at least two business days prior to the date of the meeting, and the text of such draft votes may be altered at such meeting.

=[G/Z/ol-a/s5]

