Ti=DISPUTE RESOLUTION

1.sec=All disputes or claims arising out of, relating to, or in connection with {RelationshipScope.cl} shall be finally settled under the Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce by one or more arbitrators appointed in accordance with said Rules.

RelationshipScope.cl=the Terms, the breach thereof, or use of the Ethereum Platform

2.sec=All claims between the parties relating to these Terms that are capable of being resolved by arbitration, whether sounding in contract, tort, or otherwise, shall be submitted to ICC arbitration.

3.sec=Prior to commencing arbitration, the parties have a duty to negotiate in good faith and attempt to resolve their dispute in a manner other than by submission to ICC arbitration.

4.sec=The arbitration panel shall consist of one arbitrator only, unless the ICC Court of Arbitration determines that the dispute is such as to warrant three arbitrators.

5.sec=If the Court determines that one arbitrator is sufficient, then such arbitrator shall be Swiss resident.

6.sec=If the Court determines that three arbitrators are necessary, then each party shall have 30 days to nominate an arbitrator of its choice -- in the case of the Claimant, measured from receipt of notification of the ICC Court’s decision to have three arbitrators; in the case of Respondent, measured from receipt of notification of Claimant’s nomination.

7.sec={Arbitrator.Characteristics.sec}

Arbitrator.Characteristics.sec=All nominations must be Swiss resident.

8.sec=If a party fails to nominate an arbitrator, the Court will do so.

9.sec=The Court shall also appoint the chairman.

10.sec=All arbitrators shall be and remain “independent” of the parties involved in the arbitration.

11.sec={Seat.sec}

Seat.sec=The place of arbitration shall be Zug, Switzerland.

12.sec={Language.sec}

Language.sec=The language of the arbitration shall be English.

13.sec=In deciding the merits of the dispute, the tribunal shall apply the laws of Switzerland.

14.sec=Any discovery shall be limited and shall not involve any depositions or any other examinations outside of a formal hearing.

15.sec=The tribunal shall not assume the powers of amiable compositeur or decide the case ex aequo et bono.

16.sec=In the final award, the tribunal shall fix the costs of the arbitration and decide which of the parties shall bear such costs in what proportion.

17.sec=Every award shall be binding on the parties.

18.sec=The parties undertake to carry out the award without delay and waive their right to any form of recourse against the award in so far as such waiver can validly be made.

=[G/Z/para/s18]