Ti={_Machine_Code} and Built in Capacity

1.sec={_Machines} may include {_Machine_Code} ({_MC}) and Built in Capacity (BIC). {_MC} is computer instructions, fixes, replacements and related materials, such as data and passwords relied on, provided, used with or generated by {_MC}, that permit the operation of the machine's processors, storage or other functionality.

2.sec={_MC} is copyrighted and licensed (not sold). {P1.Handle} only provides copies, fixes or replacements for {_MC} for {_Machines} under warranty or {P1.Handle} maintenance, or under a separate written agreement which may be subject to additional charges.

3.sec={P2.Handle} agrees that all copies, fixes or replacements for {_MC} will be obtained solely as authorized by {P1.Handle}. {P1.Handle} grants {P2.Handle} a nonexclusive license to use {_MC} only (i) on the {_Machine} for which {P1.Handle} provided it, and (ii) to access and use BIC only to the extent paid for by {P2.Handle}, activated by {P1.Handle} and subject to the {_Attachment} called {P1.Handle} Authorized Use Table for {_Machines} (AUT) available from {P1.Handle} and at http://www.ibm.com/systems/support/machine_warranties/m achine_code/aut.html.

4.sec=BIC is computing resource (e.g., processors, storage and other functionality) that {P1.Handle} provides for a {_Machine}.

5.sec=Use of BIC may be restricted by contract, technological or other measures. {P2.Handle} agrees to {P1.Handle}'s implementation of technological and other measures that restrict, monitor and report on use of BIC or {_MC}, and to install any changes {P1.Handle} provides.

6.sec={P2.Handle} may not alter, reverse assemble, reverse compile, translate or reverse engineer the {_MC}, or circumvent or interfere, by any means, with {P1.Handle}’s contractual, technological or other measures that restrict, monitor or report on use of BIC or {_MC}.

7.sec=While {P2.Handle}’s license to {_MC} is in effect, {P2.Handle} may transfer possession of the entire {_MC} along with all of {P2.Handle}’s rights and obligations only with corresponding transfer of the {_Machine} and a hardcopy of this {_MC} license, and only if the transferee agrees to the terms of this {_MC} license. {P2.Handle}’s {_MC} license terminates immediately upon transfer.

8.sec={_This_Agreement} governs {_MC} and BIC on {_Machines} acquired from another {_party}. Use of BIC in excess of authorizations from {P1.Handle} is subject to additional charges.

=[G/Z/ol/s8]
