Ti=Construction

1.sec=Clause, schedule and paragraph headings shall not affect the interpretation of this framework agreement or any {_Call-off_Contract}. 

2.sec=A person includes a natural person, corporate or unincorporated body (whether or not having separate legal personality). 

3.sec=The Schedules form part of this framework agreement and shall have effect as if set out in full in the body of this framework agreement. Any reference to this framework agreement includes the Schedules. 

4.sec=A reference to a company shall include any company, corporation or other body corporate, wherever and however incorporated or established. 

5.sec={HoldingCompany.sec}

HoldingCompany.Alt1.sec={HoldingCompany.1.Cl}. {HoldingCompany.3.Sen}

HoldingCompany.Alt2.sec={HoldingCompany.1.Cl} {HoldingCompany.2.cl}. {HoldingCompany.3.Sen}

HoldingCompany.=[G/Z/Alt/2]

HoldingCompany.1.Cl=A reference to a holding company or a subsidiary means a holding company or a subsidiary (as the case may be) as defined in section 1159 of the Companies Act 2006

HoldingCompany.2.cl=and a company shall be treated, for the purposes only of the membership requirement contained in sections 1159(1)(b) and (c), as a member of another company even if its shares in that other company are registered in the name of (a) another person (or its nominee) by way of security or in connection with the taking of security; or (b) its nominee.

HoldingCompany.3.Sen=In the case of a limited liability partnership which is a subsidiary of a company or another limited liability partnership, section 1159 of the Companies Act 2006 shall be amended so that: (a) references in sections 1159(1)(a) and (c) to voting rights are to the members' rights to vote on all or substantially all matters which are decided by a vote of the members of the limited liability partnership; and (b) the reference in section 1159(1)(b) to the right to appoint or remove a majority of its board of directors is to the right to appoint or remove members holding a majority of the voting rights.

6.sec=Unless the context otherwise requires, words in the singular shall include the plural and in the plural shall include the singular.

7.sec=Unless the context otherwise requires, a reference to one gender shall include a reference to the other genders. 

8.sec=A reference to a statute or statutory provision is a reference to it as amended, extended or re-enacted from time to time.

9.sec=A reference to a statute or statutory provision shall include all subordinate legislation made from time to time.

10.sec=A reference to writing or written includes {WrittenMedia.sec}.

WrittenMedia.Alt1.sec=fax but not email

WrittenMedia.Alt2.sec=fax or email

WrittenMedia.=[G/Z/Alt/2]

11.sec=Any obligation on a party not to do something includes an obligation not to allow that thing to be done.

12.sec=A reference to this framework agreement or to any other agreement or document referred to in this framework agreement is a reference to this framework agreement or such other agreement or document as varied or novated (in each case, other than in breach of the provisions of this framework agreement) from time to time.

13.sec=References to clauses and schedules are to the clauses and Schedules of this framework agreement and references to paragraphs are to paragraphs of the relevant Schedule. 

14.sec=Any words following the terms including, include, in particular, for example or any similar expression shall be construed as illustrative and shall not limit the sense of the words, description, definition, phrase or term preceding those terms.

=[G/Z/ol/s14]
