Ti=Evaluation Process

1.Ti=Technical Evaluation Factors

1.0.sec=The Government shall evaluate the requirements for an Offeror’s performance or capability acceptability based on the following non-price technical factors which are of equal importance to each other.

1.1.sec=Technical Understanding and Approach

1.2.sec=Key Personnel

1.3.sec=Similar Experience

1.=[Z/ol-none/s3]

2.Ti=Price Evaluation Factors

2.sec=Each Offeror’s price quotation will be evaluated separately from the technical quotation. The Government will evaluate the Offeror’s proposed price to ensure that the offered price is fair, reasonable, and realistic. Pricing shall reflect reasonableness, consistency with industry standards, and be in compliance with rates and terms and conditions of the BPA.

3.Ti=Evaluation Process

3.0.sec=The Government intends to utilize a multi-phased approach for this procurement described below.

3.1.Ti=Phase 1: Compliance Check

3.1.sec=The Contracting Officer will review all offers to ensure compliance with the instructions and requirements set forth in the solicitation. Offerors that are not compliant with the solicitation will not be considered in the next phase.

3.2.Ti=Phase 2: Review of Written Technical Quotations and Oral Presentations

3.2.sec=The Offeror’s written technical quotation and responses to questions asked during the Oral Presentations will be evaluated based on an assessment by the Government technical evaluation team of their strengths, weaknesses, and risks associated with the technical factors described above. After each oral presentation, the evaluation team will assess the technical merits of their proposal and select the vendor that demonstrates, in the Government's determination, the greatest understanding of the Government's requirements as described in the PWS, has the proper mix of technical expertise to satisfy the requirements, and does not exhibit weaknesses that would affect the vendor's ability to satisfy the requirements.

3.00.sec=Following the technical evaluations, price will be introduced and a best value decision will be made in accordance with Section 8 above. The Government does not intend to use any adjectival ratings for this procurement and will provide a brief explanation in accordance with FAR 8.405-2(d) to unsuccessful offerors upon timely request.

3.=[Z/ol-none/2]

=[Z/ol/3]
