Ti=Purpose

1.sec=The NIH Policy for Data Management and Sharing ({Def.Policy.sec}) reinforces NIH's longstanding commitment to making the results and outputs of the research that it funds and conducts available to the public. Data sharing enables researchers to rigorously test the validity of research findings, strengthen analyses through combined datasets, reuse hard-to-generate data, and explore new frontiers of discovery. In addition, NIH emphasizes the importance of good data management practices, which provide the foundation for effective data sharing and improve the reproducibility and reliability of research findings. NIH encourages data management and data sharing practices consistent with the NIH Plan for Increasing Access to Scientific Publications and Digital Scientific Data from NIH Funded Scientific Research and the FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, and Reusable) data principles.

Def.Policy.sec=herein referred to as the Policy

2.sec=To promote effective and efficient data management and data sharing, NIH expects researchers to manage scientific data resulting from NIH-funded or conducted research and prospectively plan for which scientific data will be preserved and shared. Under this Policy, individuals and entities would be required to provide a Data Management and Sharing Plan (Plan) describing how scientific data will be managed, including when and where the scientific data will be preserved and shared, prior to initiating the research study. Shared data should be made accessible in a timely manner for use by the research community and the broader public. This Policy is intended to establish expectations for Data Management and Sharing Plans upon which other NIH Institutes, Centers and Offices (ICO) may supplement as appropriate.

=[G/Z/ol/s2]