Ti=Use of the Work

1.sec=Licensor shall have control over the quality of use of the Work and the quality of any goods and/or services sold under or related to the Work. At the option of Licensor, Licensor will provide to Licensee an approved copyright notice and/or trademark notice to be prominently displayed on each copy of the Work published. For all advertisements and packaging of the Work, Licensee shall display with the Work the approved notices notifying the consumer of the copyright and/or trademark rights owned by and licensed within this Agreement. Licensee agrees to mark all Work with any reasonable copyright and/or trademark notices provided by Licensor and comply with any reasonable standards promulgated by Licensor that relate to the intellectual property protection and use of the Work by Licensee.

2.sec=Licensee shall provide Licensor, upon Licensor’s request, with representative samples of how Licensee is using the Work. If, at any time, any use of the Work fails to conform to Licensor’s standards, Licensor may provide to Licensee notice of said failure. Licensee shall cure said failure within {Cure.Period} from the date of such notice. In the event that said failure is not cured within the period described in the preceding sentence, Licensor may then terminate this Agreement immediately, non-conforming copies of the Work destroyed or promptly submitted to Licensor. If Licensor fails to approve any modifications or changes to the Work within {Change.Refuse.Period} of Licensee advising Licensor of proposed changes, Licensor’s approval shall be deemed to have been granted.

=[Z/ol/s2]