Ti=Insurance Requirements

1.Ti=General Provisions Applicable to All Required Insurance.

1.1.sec=All policies hereunder shall be endorsed to provide that their coverage will be primary and that any insurance carried or self insurance maintained by {_Client} and/or its Affiliates shall be excess and non-contributory.

1.2.sec={_Vendor} shall be liable for all deductibles, co-payments, and other liabilities relating to insurance coverages.

1.=[Z/ol/s2]

2.Ti=Workers’ Compensation.

2.1.0.sec=Limits

2.1.1.sec=Coverage A

2.1.2.sec=Coverage B

2.1.3.sec=Bodily Injury by Accident: $100,000 each accident

2.1.4.sec=Bodily Injury by Disease: $100,000 policy limit

2.1.5.sec=Bodily Injury by Disease:  $100,000 each employee

2.1.=[Z/ol-none/s5]

2.2.sec=The policy shall be written to meet the statutory requirements for the state in which the work is to be performed, including Occupational Disease. {_Vendor} provides workers’ compensation insurance through either qualified self-insurance or Third Party insurance.

2.3.sec=The policy shall include a waiver of subrogation in favor of {_Client} and its Affiliates.

2.=[Z/ol-none/s3]

3.Ti=Commercial General Liability.

3.1.0.sec=Limits

3.1.1.sec=General Aggregate: $5,000,000

3.1.2.sec=Products/Completed Operations Aggregate: $5,000,000

3.1.3.sec=Personal/Advertising Injury: $2,500,000 any one person

3.1.4.sec=Bodily Injury/Property Damage: $2,500,000 per occurrence

3.1.=[Z/ol-none/s4]


3.2.sec=The policy shall be written on an occurrence basis using ISO Form CG 0001 or equivalent. The policy shall provide Premises/Operations, Products/Completed Operations, Independent Contractors, Personal Injury, Explosion, Collapse and Underground Property Damage, Broad Form Property Damage and Contractual Liability coverage.

3.3.sec=The policy shall include {_Client} and its Affiliates as additional insureds.

3.4.sec=The policy shall include a waiver of subrogation in favor of {_Client} and its Affiliates.

3.=[Z/ol-none/s4]

4.Ti=Commercial Automobile Liability.

4.1.0.sec=Limits

4.1.1.sec=Bodily Injury/Property Damage: $ 2,500,000 Combined Single Limit each accident.

4.1.=[Z/ol-none/s1]

4.2.sec=The policy shall be written to cover all Owned, Non-owned, and Hired vehicles.

4.3.sec=The policy shall include {_Client} and its Affiliates as additional insureds.

4.3.sec=The policy shall include {_Client} and its Affiliates as additional insureds.

4.=[Z/ol/s3]

5.Ti=Errors and Omissions/Professional Liability.

5.1.0.sec=Limits

5.1.1.sec=Not less than $3,000,000 per claim.

5.1.=[Z/ol-none/s1]

5.2.sec=The policy shall include {_Client} and its Affiliates as additional insureds. The “insured versus insured” exclusion must be deleted with respect to the work being done for {_Client} and its Affiliates.

5.=[Z/ol/s2]

=[Z/ol/5]
