Ti=And now, the full story…

1.Sec={Damage.Sec}

Damage.Ti=If your stuff gets damaged or stolen

Damage.1.Ti=We cover stuff that you own, that’s normally kept at your home, and that was damaged by a fire, a burst pipe, theft or vandalism.

Damage.1.sec=We don’t cover cash, assault weapons, stuff that’s primarily used for your business, or things that you willingly handed over to someone else to look after.

Damage.2.Ti=What’s not covered

Damage.2.1.sec=This policy covers your stuff, up to a limit of $10,000 per year, for damages caused by fire or smoke, theft or vandalism, burst pipes or appliance leaks. Everything else, such as “I lost it,” “my dog ate it,” “my kid dropped it,” “my power went out,” “my computer died,” “my roof is leaking,” “I overfilled my bathtub,” or “I had a wardrobe malfunction,” aren’t covered. You can add coverage for some of these <a href="In the real doc, this will open our Live Policy editor">here</a>.

Damage.2.2.sec=Items worth up to $2,500 are covered automatically, but we won’t pay more per item unless they’ve been <a href="In the real doc, this will open our Live Policy editor">added individually</a>. So please let us know if you have jewelry, cameras, or other valuables worth more than $2,500 each, so we can cover them fully.

Damage.2.3.sec=We cover your physical stuff, but things like your health, reputation, identity, data, lost wages, privacy, credit rating, and financial instruments (including cash, cryptocurrency, and stocks) are not covered.

Damage.2.4.sec=We cover your stuff anywhere in the world, as long as it is normally kept at your home. Stuff that lives at your summer house, office, or in a storage unit, is not covered. You can add coverage for some of these <a href="In the real doc, this will open our Live Policy editor">here</a>.

Damage.2.5.sec=We cover stuff you own and have in your possession. If you willingly handed your things to someone else, they’re responsible. So if your stuff was damaged during shipping, at the dry cleaners, while on loan to a friend, or never came off your flight to Hawaii - it’s not covered.

Damage.2.6.sec=We don’t cover stuff that’s usually covered by other types of insurance policies such as auto, travel, pet, or business. So damage to your car, injuries to your pet, or damage to stuff used for business such as your work laptop, professional camera gear, and so on, aren’t covered. You can add coverage for some of these <a href="In the real doc, this will open our Live Policy editor">here</a>.

Damage.2.7.sec=Assault weapons (as defined by the Federal Assault Weapons Ban of 1994) are not covered. Other licensed firearms are covered, as long as they are <a href="https://oag.ca.gov/firearms/tips">added individually</a>.

Damage.2.8.sec=We do not cover intentional damage by you, nor losses that could have been foreseen or prevented by you through reasonable steps. So if damage like this has happened before and you haven’t fixed the problem fully, that’s on you.

Damage.2.9.sec=We don't cover damage caused by illegal activity by someone listed on this policy, nor property that is illegal for you to own.

Damage.2.=[G/Z/ol/s9]

Damage.=[G/Z/ol/2]
 
Unlivable.Ti=If your home becomes unlivable

Unlivable.1.Ti=Theft, vandalism, fires, and burst pipes in your building can make it unlivable. If any of these happen, we’ll help.

Unlivable.1.sec=We will pay for reasonable increased living costs caused due to theft, vandalism, fire, smoke, burst pipes or appliance leaks in your building, or mandatory evacuation of your building. We’ll cover costs of an AirBnB or hotel accommodation while your home remains unlivable, up to $2,500 per year. If you’d like more coverage, you can increase it <a href="In the real doc, this will open our Live Policy editor">here</a>.

Unlivable.2.Ti=What’s not covered

Unlivable.2.1.sec=All other things that make your home unlivable are not covered. So if your flight got canceled, your neighbors are noisy, your heating or AC is broken, your power failed, the water supply stopped, or your home is infested with bedbugs or other wildlife, you’re not covered.

Unlivable.2.2.sec=And just like damage to your stuff, we do not cover you if the damage was intentional, foreseeable or preventable by you, or relates to illegal activity by you.

Unlivable.2.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

Unlivable.=[G/Z/ol/2]

InjureOthers.Ti=If you accidentally damage or injure others

InjureOthers.1.Ti=This policy protects you if someone claims you’ve caused them bodily injury or property damage.

InjureOthers.1.1.sec=If needed, we’ll provide legal defense at our own expense and pay the damages on your behalf. The maximum amount we’ll pay in damages is $100,000 per year. You can increase that <a href="In the real doc, this will open our Live Policy editor">here</a>.

InjureOthers.1.2.sec=Since we’re paying, we may investigate, settle, or contest the complaint as we judge best.

InjureOthers.1.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

InjureOthers.2.Ti=What’s not covered

InjureOthers.2.1.sec=We cover claims of bodily injury or property damage, not stress, mental anguish, or reputational damage.

InjureOthers.2.2.sec=Damages covered by other types of insurance (such as auto, boat, or professional liability insurance), aren’t covered by this one.

InjureOthers.2.3.sec=Damage caused by drones, other flying machines or motorized vehicles of any kind (such as electric bikes, segways, or electric skateboards) aren’t covered.

InjureOthers.2.4.sec=We cover fire damage to your apartment, but other damage to the unit you rent (like scratched floors) isn’t covered. That’s what the security deposit is for.

InjureOthers.2.5.sec=We don’t cover damage caused by assault weapons (as defined by the Federal Assault Weapons Ban of 1994). Harm caused by other licensed firearms is covered, as long as they were <a href="(https://oag.ca.gov/firearms/tips">stored securely and used responsibly</a>.

InjureOthers.2.6.sec=Damage that’s related, or similar to, something you’ve been accused of in the past ten years (e.g. your dog has bitten before) isn’t covered.

InjureOthers.2.7.sec=We don’t cover damage caused intentionally, or as a result of illegal activity, by anyone listed on the policy.

InjureOthers.2.=[G/Z/ol/s7]

InjureOthers.=[G/Z/ol/2]


More.Ti=Oh, wait, there’s more coverage where this came from…

More.Weather.Ti=Add Bad Weather Package

More.Weather.sec=You can add coverage for damages caused by hail, snow, wind, and heavy rains. <a href="In the real doc, this will open our Live Policy editor">Add our bad weather coverage</a>.

More.Weather.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

More.E-Device.Ti=Add Electronic Devices Package

More.E-Device.sec=Our phones, laptops, and iPads have become an integral part of our lives, but they’re easily damaged. We offer a special coverage to protect those devices against things like spilled coffee, falling, and shattering, etc. <a href="In the real doc, this will open our Live Policy editor">Add complete device coverage</a>).

More.E-Device.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

More.Earthquake.Ti=Add Earthquake Package

More.Earthquake.sec=We provide additional coverage against earthquakes that damage your stuff. (<a href="In the real doc, this will open our Live Policy editor">Add earthquake coverage</a>).

More.Earthquake.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

More.Sewage.Ti=Add Water Backup Package

More.Sewage.sec=It turns out sewage systems sometimes get disoriented and back up into your apartment (yuck). We provide coverage for this unfortunate situation as well. <a href="In the real doc, this will open our Live Policy editor">Add water backup coverage</a>.

More.Sewage.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

More.Carless.Ti=Add Non-Owner Automobile Package

More.Carless.sec=Have a driver’s license but no car? <a href="In the real doc, this will open our Live Policy editor">Add non-owner automobile coverage</a>) and we’ll cover damage or injury caused to you, others, your vehicle, or others’ vehicle(s) if you are involved in an accident while driving a rented or borrowed car.

More.Carless.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

More.More.Ti=And more...

More.More.sec=<a>See a complete list of additional coverages on offer</a>, and sign up for notifications when more become available.

More.More.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

More.sec=<ol><li>{More.Weather.Sec}<li>{More.E-Device.Sec}<li>{More.Earthquake.Sec}<li>{More.Sewage.Sec}<li>{More.Carless.Sec}<li>{More.More.Sec}</ol>

More.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

YourRole.Ti=Your participation if something bad happens

YourRole.Deductible.Ti=AKA your ‘deductible.’ It is now set to $500.

YourRole.Deductible.1.sec=A deductible is an amount that defines your participation every time potential damage is claimed. It’s called a deductible, because it’s deducted from your claim payment.

YourRole.Deductible.2.sec=For example, if you have an approved claim that amounts to $7,000, we will end up paying you $6,500 (after we deduct the $500 ‘deductible’). It also means there’s no point in filing claims for anything less than the $500. 
YourRole.Deductible.3.sec=Opting for a higher deductible means you’re taking more of the risk on yourself, so it is often a way to lower your monthly payments. You can <a href="In the real doc, this will open our Live Policy editor">increase or decrease your deductible</a>... It’s up to you.

YourRole.Deductible.=[G/Z/ol/s3]


YourRole.Cooperate.Ti=Your obligations if something bad happens

YourRole.Cooperate.0.sec=### You are required to take immediate steps to minimize damages, notify us right away, and help with our investigation.

YourRole.Cooperate.Step.Ti-And more specifically...

YourRole.Cooperate.Step.1.sec=<a href="In the real doc, this will allow you to get in touch directly">Notify</a> us promptly of any damage or loss.

YourRole.Cooperate.Step.2.sec=Call the authorities (e.g. police, fire department, or emergency medical services) or other people in a position to help (e.g. landlords or apartment managers).

YourRole.Cooperate.Step.3.sec=Take reasonable steps to minimize the damage (e.g. try to put out the fire, call a plumber to prevent ongoing damage, move property, or people out of harm's way). You can include associated costs in your claim.

YourRole.Cooperate.Step.4.sec=Take reasonable steps to recover your losses, including exhausting other insurance before making a claim with Lemonade (e.g. your travel insurance).

YourRole.Cooperate.Step.5.sec=Provide us with the information and records we ask for as soon as possible (e.g. contact information for parties that may be involved, proof of ownership for high value items).

YourRole.Cooperate.Step.6.sec=We may ask you to submit to examination under oath, or provide evidence or affidavits relating to your claim. We may also ask you to take other reasonable steps to ensure we have complete and truthful accounts of the loss and its circumstances.

YourRole.Cooperate.Step.=[G/Z/ol/s6]

YourRole.Cooperate.Else.Ti=This is important...

YourRole.Cooperate.Else.1.sec=Failure to provide complete and truthful information at all times, including prior to the purchase of the policy or following a loss, or to comply with the above obligations, will be considered a breach of contract, and will void your coverage.

YourRole.Cooperate.Else.2.sec=We may also be obligated to report it to federal and state authorities.

YourRole.Cooperate.Else.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

YourRole.Cooperate.sec=<ol><li>{YourRole.Cooperate.Step.Sec}<li>{YourRole.Cooperate.Else.Sec}</ol>

YourRole.Cooperate.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

YourRole.sec=<ol><li>{YourRole.Deductible.Sec}<li>{YourRole.Cooperate.Sec}</ol>

YourRole.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

=[G/Z/ol/Base]

Technical.Ti=Some technical stuff, then we’re done!

Technical.Changes.Ti=Changes & Additions

Technical.Changes.sec=If you request and we approve changes during the year, we will send you a new policy. That policy will apply from that point to the original expiration date.

Technical.Changes.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

Technical.Term.Ti=Cancellation & Renewal

Technical.Term.1.sec=Your policy is for a year and will automatically renew until it is canceled by you or by us.

Technical.Term.2.sec=If we choose to cancel or not renew this policy, we’ll notify you at me@myemail.com. We will provide at least 10 days notice so you can get a new policy. If that’s not your email, you can change it <a href="In the real doc, this will open our Live Policy editor">here</a>.

Technical.Term.3.sec=You are free to cancel your policy at any time, and we will return any leftover part of your paid premiums. Also, please note cancellation will only take place from the date you asked us to cancel the policy, and not before.

Technical.Term.4.sec=If you fail to make a payment, we will try to reach you at the email you provided. If you do not pay within 10 days of the due date, your policy will be canceled immediately.

Technical.Term.=[G/Z/ol/s4]

Technical.Dispute.Ti=Arbitration & Complaints

Technical.Dispute.1.sec=We hope we never have any disagreements, and prefer to settle disagreements in the most collaborative way possible. For this reason, both you and us commit that disagreement related to this contract will be settled by arbitration, administered by the American Arbitration Association, in accordance with its Commercial Arbitration Rules, and judgment by the arbitrator may be entered in any court of appropriate jurisdiction.

Technical.Dispute.2.sec=Alternatively, if you’d like to make a complaint, please <a href="In the real doc, this will allow you to get in touch directly">contact us</a>.

Technical.Dispute.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

Technical.Subrogate.Ti=When someone else caused your damage

Technical.Subrogate.1.sec=‘Subrogation’ is a fancy term for when ‘someone else is responsible for your loss.’ If we pay you for a loss under this policy, then you give us the right to pursue the responsible party to recover what we can. If we recover enough money from them, we’ll even send you back part of your deductible.

Technical.Subrogate.2.sec=We can’t promise we’ll collect, but you give us the right to try. If you get reimbursed by someone else, like your credit card company, your friend, or landlord, you agree to return the money we paid you for that loss. No double-collecting allowed!

Technical.Subrogate.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

Technical.State.Ti=Clarifications Required by the Great State of {Policy.Cover.Address.State}.

Technical.State.sec=Your state is a very special place, and it asked that we clarify the following...

Technical.State.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

Technical.sec=<ol><li>{Technical.Changes.Sec}<li>{Technical.Term.Sec}<li>{Technical.Dispute.Sec}<li>{Technical.Subrogate.Sec}<li>{Technical.State.Sec}</ol>

Technical.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

Thanks.Ti=Well, look who’s made it here! Congrats!

Thanks.1.Ti=We’re so happy you made it to the end. Thanks!

Thanks.1.1.sec=Hopefully this all made sense and you feel good about your coverage. Please<a href="In the real doc, this will allow you to get in touch directly"> contact us</a> if anything remains unclear, or if you need more coverage than this agreement provides.

Thanks.1.2.sec=We wish you a charmed year, but should you encounter any bumps along the way, we’ll do our best to smooth them out. After all, when life gives you lemons…

Thanks.1.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

Thanks.=[G/Z/ol/1]

sec=<ol><li>{Damage.Sec}<li>{Unlivable.Sec}<li>{InjureOthers.Sec}<li>{More.Sec}<li>{YourRole.Sec}<li>{Technical.Sec}</ol>{Thanks.Sec}
