Title=Terms

Text={Text.sec}

Text.0.sec=This framework uses the following terms. Where terms are used without capitalization and are not otherwise defined in the [UMAcore], they are used in their normal sense.

Text.1.Ti=Individual

Text.1.sec=A natural person (that is, a human being) with the capacity to take on contractual duties and obligations as a participant in an UMA interaction. 

Text.2.Ti=Non-Person Entity (NPE)

Text.2.sec=A legal person (such as a corporation) with the capacity to take on contractual duties and obligations as a participant in an UMA interaction. 

Text.3.Ti=Subject

Text.3.sec=An Individual or NPE. Subjects play various roles in achieving and seeking user-managed access, and the same Subject might serve in multiple contractual roles. 

Text.4.Ti=Conformance

Text.4.sec=Claimed adherence of a running software program or service to the requirements of one or more of the roles "authorization server", "resource server", or "client", as defined in [UMAcore]. Software components play various roles in participating in the technical interactions necessary to achieve and seek user-managed access, and the same software component might serve in multiple technical roles. 

Text.5.Ti=Authorizing Party

Text.5.sec=A Subject that fills the "resource owner" role as defined in [UMAcore], using and configuring software services that variously fill the "authorization server" and "resource server" roles. This Subject is the "user" in "User-Managed Access"; UMA's first priority is to enable Individuals to serve in the Authorizing Party role, though NPEs can serve in this role as well. 

Text.6.Ti=Authorization Server

Text.6.sec=A software service that fills the "authorization server" role as defined in [UMAcore]. 

Text.7.Ti=Authorization Server Operator

Text.7.sec=A Subject responsible for running and operating an Authorization Server. 

Text.8.Ti=Resource Server

Text.8.sec=A software service that fills the "resource server" role as defined in [UMAcore]. 

Text.9.Ti=Resource Server Operator

Text.9.sec=A Subject responsible for running and operating a Resource Server. 

Text.10.Ti=Client

Text.10.sec=A software application or service that fills the "client" role as defined in [UMAcore]. 

Text.11.Ti=Client Operator

Text.11.sec=A Subject responsible for running and operating a Client. 

Text.12.Ti=Requesting Party

Text.12.sec=A Subject that uses a Client to seek access to a protected resource. This Subject may be an Individual or an NPE. The Requesting Party and the Authorizing Party may be the same Subject or different Subjects. 

Text.13.Ti=Requesting Party Agent

Text.13.sec=A Subject using a Client to seek access to a protected resource on behalf of a Requesting Party. Typically this Subject is an Individual acting on behalf of an NPE. 

Text.=[Z/Sec/13]

Comments={Comments.sec}

Comments.=[GHx/KantaraInitiative/UMA/2013/2_1_1_Comments.md]

=[GHx/KantaraInitiative/UMA/Z/Clause.md]
