Ti=Non-Disclosure Agreement

1.Ti=Parties

1.sec=Clearly lists the parties agreeing to abide by the terms of the agreement and provides official named entities for legal suit.

2.Ti=Exchange of Information/Purpose

2.sec=Limits disclosure of confidential information to a particular purpose to prevent widespread dispersion and the loss of control and tracking of the disclosure.

3.Ti=Confidential Information

3.1.sec=Prevents overburdening parties with onerous obligations of confidentiality by clearly defining which information the obligations concerning confidentiality exist.

3.2.sec=Protects the agreement from invalidation by a court due to overbroad definition.

3.3.sec=Non-Confidential Information Prevents party liability for disclosure by defining which information is not confidential typically including required mandatory disclosures, public information, lawful subsequent disclosures by 3rd parties, a recipient’s own development of information without use of the disclosed party’s information (the burden of proof shouldered by the recipient), permitted disclosure and limiting the disclosure.

3.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

4.Ti=Confidentiality Obligation

4.sec=Clearly defines the expectations of disclosers setting standards to determine or avoid breach.

5.Ti=Use of Information

5.sec=Prevents recipient’s use of disclosed information outside of discloser’s approved purpose limiting the level of risk associated with wider dispersion of information. Also assists in preventing recipients from receiving more than the benefit of the bargain of the exchange of confidential information by its unauthorized use and the resulting consequences.

6.Ti=Standard of Care

6.sec=Clearly defines discloser’s expectations of recipient’s methods of protecting discloser’s information and provides a benchmark to measure compliance. 

7.Ti=Notification of Disclosure

7.sec=Provides disclosers with the ability to prevent disclosure before it happens and track where, when and to whom disclosures are made allowing easier enforcement.

8.Ti=Return or Destruction of Confidential Information

8.sec=Prevents unapproved uses or accidental disclosures by removing the material available.

9.Ti=Inadvertent Disclosure

9.sec=Protects party by including an exception to liability when a party has complied with all terms of agreement, but accidental disclosure occurs.

10.Ti=Term of Confidentiality

10.1.Ti=Trade Secrets

10.1.sec=Ensures protection of parties’ trade secret for the life of the trade secret to preserve party’s competitive edge.

10.2.Ti=Other Confidential Information

10.2.sec=Clearly defines the time during which the agreement governs a party’s obligations towards proprietary information and confidential information other than Trade Secrets thus limiting exposure to liability and burdensome obligation.

10.=[G/Z/ol/2]

11.Ti=Ownership of Confidential Information

11.sec=Protects discloser’s property rights by clearly communicating no intent to transfer rights.

12.Ti=No License Right

12.sec=Protects a party’s property rights to preserve competitiveness.

13.Ti=Equitable/Injunctive Relief

13.sec=Enables discloser to prevents recipient from doing irreparable harm before the harm occurs where money or property cannot compensate.

14.Ti=Indemnification

14.sec=Prevents losses from 3rd party lawsuits by the indemnifying party specifically accepting blame for certain of its acts or omissions and reimbursing the indemnified party its resulting losses. Also limits liability for a greater scope of injury by limiting circumstances of indemnifying party’s responsibility.

15.Ti=Warranties

15.sec=Provides assurances to recipient regarding disclosed information shared that if not true result in a breach subject to consequences.

16.Ti=General Provisions

16.1.Ti=Entire Agreement

16.1.sec=Confirms both parties negotiated and fully accepted the terms within the final agreement and prevents a party from claiming discussions during negotiation constitute side agreement(s).

16.2.Ti=Integration

16.2.sec=Confirms this agreement supersedes any previous documents, prevents side agreement arguments.

16.3.Ti=Counterparts

16.3.sec=Prevents a party from claiming agreement is invalid because parties signed the agreement separately and possibly on several copies.

16.4.Ti=Amendment

16.4.sec=Describes procedures required to modify the agreement after execution to make modifications official and legally binding and incorporated into the original agreement.

16.5.Ti=Notice

16.5.sec=Clarifies what constitutes legally binding notice when parties are required to provide written notice/consent, termination, default, etc.

16.6.Ti=Contacts

16.6.sec=Specifically assigns coordination of confidential information to certain contacts for each party enabling more accurate tracking of information disclosure and oversight of agreement’s dictates.

16.7.Ti=Assignment

16.7.sec=Allows/prohibits/controls transfer of rights/obligations/duties from one party to another to transfer privity (a direct and immediate contractual relationship).

16.8.Ti=Governing Law/Jurisdiction/Venue

16.8.sec=Clarifies which law will govern interpretation (Governing Law), what location (Venue) and which court matters are filed and contested within (Jurisdiction) to gain “homecourt” advantage in case of dispute.

16.9.Ti=No Waiver

16.9.sec=Ensures parties keep the right to enforce provisions despite relaxing earlier.

16.10.Ti=Severability

16.10.sec=Clarifies intent, protects validity and enforceability by severing an offending provision from the agreement without affecting the validity of the remaining provisions.

16.11.Ti=Survival

16.11.sec=Ensures the intent of the agreement is maintained by describing clauses that survive even after agreement is terminated or expires.

16.12.Ti=Independent Contractor/Business Relationship

16.12.sec=Clearly states the independent contractor business relationship between the parties which prevents one party’s liabilities from transferring to the other party.

16.=[G/Z/ol/12]

=[G/Z/ol/16]
