Ti=Miscellaneous

sec=<ol><li>{Independent.Sec}<li>{CustomerUsers.Sec}<li>{Notice.Sec}<li>{ForceMajeure.Sec}<li>{Assign.Sec}<li>{Sever.Sec}<li>{Waive.Sec}<li>{GovtRestrictedRights.Sec}<li>{Bankruptcy.Sec}<li>{LawAndForum.Sec}<li>{AnnexPriority.Sec}<li>{CommonDrafting.Sec}<li>{TechExport.Sec}<li>{EntireAgreement.Sec}<li>{Counterpart.Sec}<li>{Amend.Sec}</ol>

Independent.Ti=Independent Contractors

Independent.sec=The parties are independent contractors and shall so represent themselves in all regards. Neither party is the agent of the other, and neither may make commitments on the other’s behalf. The parties agree that no <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> employee or contractor will be an employee of <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a>.

Independent.=[G/Z/ol/Base] 

CustomerUsers.Ti=Users

CustomerUsers.sec=<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> is responsible and liable for the acts and omissions of <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.User.sec'>Users</a> related to this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> and to the products and services provided pursuant to this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a>, as if they were <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a>’s own acts and omissions.

CustomerUsers.=[G/Z/ol/Base] 

Notice.Ti=Notices

Notice.0.sec=Notices pursuant to this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> shall be sent to the addresses below, or to such others as either party may provide in writing. Such notices will be deemed received at such addresses upon the earlier of (a) actual receipt or (b) delivery in person, by fax with written confirmation of receipt, or by certified mail return receipt requested.

Notice.1.sec=For <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a>: {Vendor.Notice.Block}

Notice.2.sec=For <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a>: {Customer.Notice.Block}

Notice.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s2]

ForceMajeure.Ti=Force Majeure

ForceMajeure.sec=No delay, failure, or default, other than a failure to pay fees when due, will constitute a breach of this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> to the extent caused by acts of war, terrorism, hurricanes, earthquakes, other acts of God or of nature, strikes or other labor disputes, riots or other acts of civil disorder, embargoes, or other causes beyond the performing party’s reasonable control.

ForceMajeure.=[G/Z/ol/Base] 

Assign.Ti=Assignment & Successors

Assign.sec=Neither party may assign this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> or any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the other’s express written consent. Except to the extent forbidden in this Section {Assign.Xnum}, this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties’ respective successors and assigns.

Assign.=[G/Z/ol/Base] 

Sever.Ti=Severability

Sever.sec=To the extent permitted by applicable law, the parties hereby waive any provision of law that would render any clause of this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> invalid or otherwise unenforceable in any respect. In the event that a provision of this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> is held to be invalid or otherwise unenforceable, such provision will be interpreted to fulfill its intended purpose to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, and the remaining provisions of this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> will continue in full force and effect.

Sever.=[G/Z/ol/Base] 

Waive.Ti=No Waiver

Waive.sec=Neither party will be deemed to have waived any of its rights under this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> by lapse of time or by any statement or representation other than by an authorized representative in an explicit written waiver. No waiver of a breach of this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> will constitute a waiver of any other breach of this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a>.

Waive.=[G/Z/ol/Base] 

GovtRestrictedRights.Ti=Government Restricted Rights

GovtRestrictedRights.sec=The <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a> is provided with Restricted Rights. Use, duplication, or disclosure for or by the government of the United States, including without limitation any of its agencies or instrumentalities, is subject to restrictions set forth, as applicable: (i) in subparagraphs (a) through (d) of the Commercial Computer Software-Restricted Rights clause at FAR 52.227-19; or (ii) in similar clauses in other federal regulations, including the NASA FAR supplement. The contractor or manufacturer is <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a>. <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> shall not remove or deface any restricted rights notice or other legal notice appearing in the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a> or on any packaging or other media associated with the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a>.

GovtRestrictedRights.=[G/Z/ol/Base] 

Bankruptcy.Ti=Bankruptcy Rights

Bankruptcy.sec=The rights and licenses granted to <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> in Section {License.Grant.Xnum} (License), the last sentence of Section {License.Document.Xnum} (Documentation), and Section {SourceCodeEscrow.License.Xnum} (Escrow License) above (collectively, the “{DefT.License_Provisions}”) are licenses to “intellectual property” rights, as defined in Section 365(n) of the United States Bankruptcy Code (11 U.S.C. Sections 101, et seq.). If <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> is subject to any proceeding under the United States Bankruptcy Code, and <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> as debtor in possession or its trustee in bankruptcy rejects this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a>, <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> may, pursuant to 11 U.S.C. Section 365(n)(1) and (2), retain any and all rights granted to it under the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.License_Provisions.sec'>License Provisions</a> to the maximum extent permitted by law. This Section {Bankruptcy.Xnum} will not be construed to limit or restrict any right or remedy not set forth in this Section {Bankruptcy.Xnum}, including without limitation the right to retain any license or authority this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> grants pursuant to any provision other than the <a href='#Def.License_Provisions.sec' class='definedterm'>License Provisions</a>.

Bankruptcy.=[G/Z/ol/Base] 

LawAndForum.Ti=Choice of Law & Jurisdiction

LawAndForum.sec=This <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> will be governed solely by the internal laws of {Law.State.the}, including without limitation applicable federal law, without reference to: (a) any conflicts of law principle that would apply the substantive laws of another jurisdiction to the parties’ rights or duties; (b) the 1980 United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods; or (c) other international laws. The parties consent to the personal and exclusive jurisdiction of {Dispute.Forum.USDC.cl}. This Section {LawAndForum.Xnum} governs all claims arising out of or related to this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a>, including without limitation tort claims.

LawAndForum.=[G/Z/ol/Base] 

AnnexPriority.Ti=Conflicts

AnnexPriority.sec=In the event of any conflict between Attachment A or Attachment B and this main body of this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a>, this main body will govern.

AnnexPriority.=[G/Z/ol/Base] 

CommonDrafting.Ti=Construction

CommonDrafting.sec=The parties agree that the terms of this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> result from negotiations between them. This <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> will not be construed in favor of or against either party by reason of authorship.

CommonDrafting.=[G/Z/ol/Base] 

TechExport.Ti=Technology Export

TechExport.sec=<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> shall not: (a) permit any third party to access or use the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a> in violation of any U.S. law or regulation; or (b) export the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a> or otherwise remove it from the United States except in compliance with all applicable U.S. laws and regulations. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> shall not permit any third party to access or use the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a> in, or export it to, a country subject to a United States embargo (as of the Effective Date, Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Sudan, and Syria).

TechExport.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

EntireAgreement.Ti=Entire Agreement

EntireAgreement.sec=This <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> sets forth the entire agreement of the parties and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous writings, negotiations, and discussions with respect to its subject matter. Neither party has relied upon any such prior or contemporaneous communications.

EntireAgreement.=[G/Z/ol/Base] 

Counterpart.Ti=Execution in Counterparts

Counterpart.sec=This <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> may be executed in one or more counterparts. Each counterpart will be an original, but all such counterparts will constitute a single instrument.

Counterpart.=[G/Z/ol/Base] 

Amend.Ti=Amendment

Amend.sec=This <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> may not be amended except through a written agreement by authorized representatives of each party.

Amend.=[G/Z/ol/Base] 

=[G/Z/ol/Base]
