
Ti=Part II LICENSED SOFTWARE/SAAS TERMS & CONDITIONS

0.sec=Articles 14 through 17 below apply only if the parties execute a Software/SaaS Addendum. 

1.Ti=License, Subscription, & Software/SaaS Addendums

1.sec=Customer’s license to Licensed Software and its rights to SaaS are set forth in the applicable Software/SaaS Addendum. If the Software/SaaS Addendum does not list such license or rights, Vendor hereby grants Customer a license to reproduce, modify, and otherwise use the Licensed Software and a subscription to access and use the SaaS, consistent with the goals and requirements of such Software/SaaS Addendum. 

2.Ti=Service Levels & Maintenance

2.1.Ti=Licensed Software Maintenance

2.1.0.sec=Except to the extent that a Software/SaaS Addendum provides to the contrary:

2.1.0.sec/Note=This is a just-in-case provision, likely to be superseded by a real maintenance plan in the Addendum.

2.1.1.Ti=Maintenance

2.1.1.sec=During the term of this Agreement, Vendor shall maintain the Licensed Software and SaaS so that they perform in material compliance with their Specifications.

2.1.2.Ti=Updates & Upgrades

2.1.2.sec=During the term of this Agreement, Vendor shall provide Customer with copies of all new versions, updates, and upgrades of the Licensed Software (collectively, “Upgrades”), without additional charge, promptly after commercial release. Upon delivery to Customer, Upgrades will become part of the Licensed Software and will be subject to the license and other terms of this Agreement applicable to such Licensed Software.

2.1.=[G/Z/ol/2]

2.2.Ti=SaaS SLA

2.2.0.sec/Note=This is a just-in-case provision, likely to be superseded by a real maintenance plan in the Addendum.

2.2.0.sec=Except to the extent that a Software/SaaS Addendum provides to the contrary:

2.2.1.Ti=SLA

2.2.1.sec=During the term of this Agreement, Vendor shall maintain the SaaS so that it performs according to its Specifications during 99.999% of each calendar month.


2.2.2.Ti=Updated SaaS

2.2.2.sec=Vendor shall ensure that SaaS receives all updates and upgrades Vendor provides to its customers generally.

2.2.=[G/Z/ol/2]

2.=[G/Z/ol/2]

3.Ti=Timing of Maintenance Fees & SaaS Subscriptions

3.Ti/Note=This is meant to ensure Customer doesn't pay for maintenance or SaaS before systems are in use. This is generally unpopular with vendors.

3.sec=Notwithstanding any provision of an Addendum to the contrary: (A) no fees for maintenance of Licensed Software or SaaS, including without limitation for Upgrades (as defined in Subsection 15.1(b) above), will accrue before Go-Live (as defined below); and (B) no period before Go-Live will be counted against the time covered by any maintenance period. Unless the applicable Software/SaaS Addendum provides to the contrary, no fees for use of SaaS will accrue before Go-Live, and no period before Go-Live will be counted against the time covered by any SaaS subscription fees. This Article 16 limits the potential periods of maintenance and of SaaS subscriptions and will not be construed to extend or otherwise define such periods. “Go-Live” refers to the earlier of Acceptance of the Licensed Software or SaaS or Customer’s first use of the Licensed Software or SaaS in production, other than a beta use or test.

4.Ti=Functionality & Related Warranties

4.0.sec=Except to the extent that a Software/SaaS Addendum provides to the contrary:

4.1.Ti=Licensed Software Warranties

4.1.sec=Vendor represents and warrants that the Licensed Software will materially conform to its Specifications for 1 year following Acceptance. In the event of breach of the warranty in this Subsection 17.1 (and without limiting any other right or remedy of Customer), Vendor shall promptly repair the Licensed Software or replace it with software of substantially similar functionality, or if the foregoing fails after reasonable efforts and Customer so requests, refund all fees paid pursuant to this Agreement for such Licensed Software. The preceding sentence: (a) does not limit any Customer right to recover fees paid pursuant to other Addendums where products or services provided thereunder are compromised or of reduced value as a result of the breach of warranty; and (b) does not limit any maintenance commitments set forth in Subsection 15.1(a) above or in a Software/SaaS Addendum.

4.2.Ti=SaaS Warranties

4.2.sec=Vendor warrants that the SaaS will materially conform to its Specifications The preceding sentence: (a) does not limit any Customer right to recover fees paid pursuant to other Addendums where products or services provided thereunder are compromised or of reduced value as a result of the breach of warranty; and (b) does not limit any service level commitments set forth in Subsection 15.2(a) above or in a Software/SaaS Addendum.

4.3.Ti=Supporting Services

4.3.sec=Vendor represents and warrants that it will provide any service that supports Licensed Software or SaaS, including without limitation maintenance services, in a professional and workmanlike manner.

4.=[G/Z/ol/3]

=[G/Z/ol/4]
