//Note1=This presents a possible basic taxonomy for agreements generally.  The names are merely suggestions, intended to be i) debated and ii) supplemented and overridden in actual use.

//Note2=For maximum generality, this uses a common frame for agreements.  We point directly at a frame for US English /US/, but that points at an abstract frame /00/, which is also  available in /FR/ and /PL/ and should be made available in all other languages.

//Note3=This is intended as a very simple example for discussion of a generalized system for licenses.  There are very extensive developed form also available on the site.

=[G/Agt-Form-CmA/US/0.md]

Doc.Ti=License Agreement

sec=<ol class="secs-and"><li>{Def.Sec}<li>{Deal.Sec}<li>{How.Sec}<li>{Relate.Sec}<li>{Misc.Sec}</ol>

Def.Ti=Definitions

Def.sec=A list of defined terms used in the {_Agreement}.  

Def.=[G/Z/Base]

Deal.Ti=Deal - In Focus Business Points

Deal.sec=This section is intended to focus business attention on business terms that vary from one contract to another and are of immediate importance to the performance of the contract.

Deal.=[G/Z/Base]

How.Ti=How - Background Business Points

How.sec=The business paradigm.

How.=[G/Z/Base]

Relate.Ti=Relationship - Principal Statements of Assumptions and Allocations of Rights and Risks

Relate.sec=Matters that relate to assumptions of the parties, to contingencies, to unexpected events, methods of communication.  Often called "legal" points, and the focus of lawyers' efforts.

Relate.=[G/Z/Base]

Misc.Ti=Miscellaneous - More Legal and Mechanics

Misc.sec=Matters common to most contracts.

Misc.=[G/Z/Base]

P1.Handle={_P1}

P2.Handle={_P2}

Def.Xnum=<a class="xref" href='#Def.Sec'>1</a>

Deal.Xnum=<a class="xref" href='#Deal.Sec'>2</a>

How.Xnum=<a class="xref" href='#How.Sec'>3</a>

Relate.Xnum=<a class="xref" href='#Relate.Sec'>4</a>

Misc.Xnum=<a class="xref" href='#Misc.Sec'>5</a>