Guide to Annex D

Ti=Creating a Benefit Sharing Plan

Intro.Ti=Introduction:

Intro.1.sec=Benefit sharing is a means of acknowledging and showing respect for all those involved in data sharing. The full magnitude of benefits cannot be known in advance. Therefore, there is no precise way to share the benefits fairly between the Parties prospectively. One advantage of a {_Benefit_Sharing_Plan} is to identify and categorize the benefits and risks that arise from the increased sharing of datasets, algorithms or software in the context of public health surveillance. 

Intro.2.sec=Negotiating a {_Benefit_Sharing_Plan} requires consideration of the interests and contribution of all stakeholders, but not all stakeholders will be able to participate effectively in the negotiation. For example, when data sharing involves stakeholders from low- and middle-income countries they may be at a disadvantage relative to partners from high-income countries. Under these circumstances, Parties should work together to identify and assess how best to represent the interests of all stakeholders. Simple agreement to the terms of the {_Benefit_Sharing_Plan} does not necessarily mean that there will be equitable sharing of benefits.

Intro.3.sec=The benefits arising from data sharing should be equitably distributed amongst the Parties and other stakeholders, including the community from which the data come. Achieving a strictly equal distribution of benefits will be difficult, if not impossible, and will not necessarily be equitable in respect of the needs of each party, their interests and contribution to the activities. The subjective value of different benefits can only be determined by engaging the relevant stakeholders. 

Intro.4.sec=There is no single agreed mechanism for ‘equitable’ distribution, and this will need to be discussed collaboratively on a case-by-case basis. Equity requires stakeholder needs to be taken into account. Some stakeholders may have contributed relatively little to the activity, but may have high unmet health or capacity needs, and therefore equitable distribution of benefits may require allocation of additional benefit to these groups.

Intro.5.sec=Annex {Annex.BenefitSharingPlan.Xnum} contains the key points to consider when creating a benefit sharing plan. The sections below address each point in {Annex. D, providing the detail required for their implementation as part of the Model Agreement. In general, each point should be discussed and agreed by the Parties to the data sharing agreement, with explanation provided for each option chosen.

1.Ti=Benefit identification

1.0.sec=Identify the potential benefits arising from the data sharing activity. Describe how these benefits will be equitably distributed between Parties and other stakeholders, including the community from which the data come.

1.1.sec={BenefitRisk-BenefitDescription.sec}

1.00.0.sec=Data sharing activities can give rise to a variety of benefits to Parties and stakeholders, including but not limited to:

1.00.1.1.sec=Improved public health outcomes, including:

1.00.1.2.sec=Sharing results and information with the data provider.

1.00.1.3.sec=Directing research and action towards public health needs, including those in the community from which the data come.

1.00.1.4.sec=Recognizing gaps in surveillance activities and identifying targets for future research.

1.00.1.5.sec=Improving accuracy of public health surveillance.

1.00.1.6.sec=Informing risk/benefit analysis of public health action.

1.00.1.7.sec=Accelerating public health action.

1.00.1.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s7]

1.00.2.0.sec=Academic benefits, including:

1.00.2.1.sec=Providing appropriate recognition of the Data Providers and facilitators in publications to share equitably the prestige and career development opportunities that come from surveillance and research. This may include opportunities to be co-authors of papers, to write commentaries or to be named in the acknowledgments. 

1.00.2.2.sec=Creating opportunities to contribute to current or future research.

1.00.2.3.sec=Creating new or stronger collaborations.

1.00.2.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s3]

1.00.3.0.sec=Commercial and intellectual property benefits, including:

1.00.3.1.sec=Generating licence fees.

1.00.3.2.sec=Jointly owning intellectual property rights.

1.00.3.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s2]

1.00.4.0.sec=Capacity-building benefits, including:

1.00.4.1.sec=Increasing human resources for data collection, curation, analysis, and interpretation. This will improve capacity for data providers (and local secondary users) to mine their own data, mine data from other sources, respond to secondary user queries, and contribute to regional and global partnerships.

1.00.4.2.sec=Developing sustainable data infrastructure including storage, security and interoperability.

1.00.4.3.sec=Improving knowledge and technology that make use of public health surveillance data for management or analysis, or that are relevant to public health action.

1.00.4.4.sec=Accessing external facilities for public health resources and databases.

1.00.4.5.sec=Building institutional capacity.

1.00.4.6.sec=Contributing to the local economy.

1.00.4.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s6]

1.00.5.0.sec=For each benefit identified, the Parties should describe and explain:

1.00.5.1.sec=The expected nature and magnitude of the benefit. “Nature” refers to the type of benefit, for example financial reward, improved public health or gain in capacity. “Magnitude” is the likely size of the benefit, which is specific to its nature.

1.00.5.2.sec=The equitable distribution of the benefit to be shared. “Equitable” refers to the ability to benefit according to need. The description should articulate how this distribution takes into account the needs and rights of each stakeholder, including the community from which the data come, where possible.

1.00.5.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s2]

1.00.=[G/Z/paras/s5]

1.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s1]

2.Ti=Risk identification

2.0.sec=Identify any potential negative impact, and its likelihood,  of the data sharing activity to Parties and other stakeholders. Describe how these risks have been considered against the potential benefits and how they will be mitigated and equitably distributed.

2.1.sec={BenefitRisk-RiskDescription.sec}

2.00.1.0.sec=Data sharing may also present risks to some or all stakeholders. Such risks might include:

2.00.1.1.sec=Financial cost, including as a result of travel and trade restrictions.

2.00.1.2.sec=Unintentional exploitation of one or more stakeholders.

2.00.1.3.sec=Opportunity cost (use of skills on this activity relative to other activities). 

2.00.1.4.sec=Reputational cost.

2.00.1.5.sec=Unauthorized sharing of individual-level personal information, resulting in invasion of privacy, stigma or discrimination to the individual or communities.

2.00.1.6.sec=Negative impact on individuals’ careers through lost publication or scientific collaboration opportunities

2.00.1.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s6]

2.00.2.0.sec=For each risk identified, the Parties should describe and explain:

2.00.2.1.sec=The expected nature, magnitude and likelihood of the risk. 

2.00.2.2.sec=How each risk will be mitigated, where possible. 

2.00.2.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s2]

2.00.2.3.sec=The likely distribution of the risk and how ‘risk-sharing’ might take place.  The description should articulate how this distribution takes into account the rights and capabilities of each stakeholder, including the community from which the data come, where possible.

2.00.3.sec=When incentives to stakeholders are so great that they could potentially distort the judgement of data subjects or providers, there is a risk to the voluntary nature of their consent to data sharing- resulting from so-called ‘undue inducement’. Under these circumstances there is a risk that stakeholders might be ‘blinded’ by the potential benefits. They might therefore underestimate the risks associated with data sharing, overestimate the benefit of the capacity building activities proposed, or, even if they adequately estimate the risks, they may nonetheless decide to act against their overall interests in order to access the benefits. Openly and objectively identifying risks and benefits can help mitigate these risks. 

2.00.3.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s3]

2.00.=[G/Z/paras/s3]

2.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s1]

3.Ti=Roles and responsibilities

3.0.sec=Specify the persons with roles and responsibilities for each step in the benefit and risk sharing process. 

3.1.sec={BenefitRisk-RolesAndResponsibilities.sec}

3.00.sec=The Parties should identify the specific persons who will have roles and responsibilities for the various aspects of the benefit sharing plan and provide their contact information as part of Annex D. These roles should include the necessary steps to be taken where benefits and risks exceed or are less in magnitude than that described in the {_Benefit_Sharing_Plan}. Where necessary or appropriate, these persons can exercise responsibility for an area of the benefit sharing plan (e.g., monitoring and evaluation) on behalf of both Parties, including committing the necessary resources.

3.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s1]

4.Ti=Monitoring and evaluation

4.0.sec=Describe how the equitable division of benefits and risks will be monitored, evaluated and recorded.

4.1.sec={BenefitRisk-MonitoringAndEvaluation.sec}

4.00.sec=A {_Benefit_Sharing_Plan} is prospective, and estimates the nature and magnitude of potential benefits and risks. During and following an activity, stakeholder satisfaction with the data sharing and its outcome, as well their perspective of the equitability of the division of benefits should be evaluated and recorded. These experiences can provide valuable information to inform future {_Benefit_Sharing_Plan}s. Evaluation requires financial and human resources, and this should be included in the initial budget. In addition, the persons responsible for the evaluations should be identified. Where possible, the benefit sharing plan, the evaluation methodology and the outcome should also be published so that they are open to external assessment, provide a resource for future data sharing activities and support comparisons of different activities. The Plan should describe: the information that will be made publically available; justification for withholding any information; criteria, where appropriate, for access to the information; where the Plan and its evaluation will be published; and who will have responsibility to ensure publication. 

4.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s1]

=[G/Z/ol/4]


