Ti=Part III Professional Services Terms & Conditions

0.sec=Articles 18 through 24 below apply only if the parties execute a Statement of Work Addendum.

1.Ti=Project Managers

1.sec=In its performance of Professional Services, Vendor shall report to Customer’s Project Manager (as defined below) or his or her designee. Vendor shall ensure that its Project Manager is available to meet with Customer’s Project Manager or designee at such times as Customer may reasonably request. (Each party’s “Project Manager” is the person so listed in the relevant Statement of Work Addendum or such replacement as the party may designate in writing.)

2.Ti=Reimbursable Expenses

2.sec=Except to the extent that a Statement of Work Addendum specifically provides to the contrary: (A) Customer shall reimburse Vendor for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by Vendor employees and contractors involved in provision of the Professional Services, provided Customer specifically authorized each expense or range of expense in advance in writing; (B) Vendor shall invoice Customer monthly for any travel, meal, and other expenses at cost and shall provide Customer with receipts for all expenses more than $__; (C) Customer will not be required to reimburse Vendor for any air travel other than coach (or its cost equivalent class); and (D) Vendor shall provide, at its sole cost and expense, all equipment required for it to provide the Professional Services.

3.Ti=Deliverables

3.0.sec=Except to the extent that a Statement of Work Addendum specifically provides to the contrary:

3.1.Ti=Deliverables that Become Licensed Software or SaaS

3.1.sec=If this Agreement includes one or more Software/SaaS Addendums, a Statement of Work Addendum may provide that a Deliverable becomes part of the Licensed Software or the SaaS. In such case, the Deliverable will become part of the Licensed Software or SaaS upon Acceptance, and from that point such Deliverable will be subject to the intellectual property rights, warranties, and other terms related to such Licensed Software or SaaS in the relevant Software/SaaS Addendum and elsewhere in this Agreement.

3.2.Ti=Other Deliverables; License

3.2.sec=If a Deliverable does not become part of the Licensed Software or SaaS pursuant to Section 20.1 above, Vendor hereby grants Customer a nonexclusive, perpetual, irrevocable, fully-paid, royalty-free, worldwide license to reproduce, create derivative works from, publicly display, publicly perform, make, have made, import, and use each Deliverable, with the right to sublicense each and every such right. Vendor also forever waives and agrees never to assert any “moral rights” (no matter how designated) with respect to any Deliverable referenced in the preceding sentence against Customer or its licensees, even after termination of this Agreement.

3.=[G/Z/ol/2]

4.Ti=Service & Deliverables Warranties

4.sec=Vendor represents and warrants that: (A) the Professional Services will be provided in a workmanlike manner and with the highest professional standards and practices; (B) each technology Deliverable will perform according to its Specifications for a period of 1 year following Acceptance, or for such other period as is set forth in the relevant Statement of Work Addendum; and (c) Vendor shall comply with all applicable federal, state, and local laws, rules, and regulation in connection with the performance of the Professional Services, including without limitation laws, rules, and regulations governing discrimination in contracting and employment. Without limiting any remedies of Customer, Vendor shall promptly repair or replace any Deliverable involved in a breach of the warranty in Section 21(B) above.


5.Ti=Nonsolicitation

5.sec=During the term of this Agreement and for 1 year after termination, Vendor shall not solicit any of Customer’s employees involved in Professional Services to consider alternate employment. For the avoidance of doubt, the preceding sentence does not forbid a solicitation to the general public. For each employee who quits as a result of breach of this Article 22, the soliciting party Vendor shall pay Customer _______________, as liquidated damages. The parties agree that the damages set forth in the preceding sentence are liquidated damages and not penalties and that they are reasonable in light of the harm that would be caused by breach, the difficulties of proof of loss, and the inconvenience and infeasibility of otherwise obtaining an adequate remedy.


6.Ti=Vendor’s Personnel

6.sec=Vendor shall assign personnel of such skill levels as is necessary to perform Professional Services. Vendor shall replace any person providing Professional Services as soon as reasonably practicable, not to exceed 10 business days, after Customer indicates dissatisfaction with such person in writing, which Customer may do for any reason that does not violate applicable law, in its sole discretion.


7.Ti=Insurance

7.sec=During the term of this Agreement and for one year thereafter, Vendor shall maintain in full force and effect: (A) business automobile liability insurance for all vehicles, including those owned or rented by Vendor or its employees, covering personal injury and property damage, with a limit of at least $_______ per occurrence; and (B) worker’s compensation and employer’s liability insurance as required by statute in each jurisdiction in which Vendor provides Professional Services. Vendor shall comply with the requirements listed in Subsections 11.1 and 11.2 above with respect to the coverages listed in this Article 24.

=[G/Z/ol/7]
