Ti=Compliance and Enforcement

1.Ti=During the Funding or Support Period

1.0.sec=During the funding period, compliance with the Plan will be determined by the funding NIH ICO. Compliance with the Plan, including any Plan updates, will be reviewed during regular reporting intervals (e.g., at the time of annual Research Performance Progress Reports (RPPRs)) at a minimum.

1.1.sec=Extramural Awards: The Plan will become a Term and Condition of the Notice of Award. Failure to comply with the Terms and Conditions may result in an enforcement action, including additional special terms and conditions or termination of the award, and may affect future funding decisions.

1.2.sec=Contracts: The Plan will become a Term and Condition of the Award, and compliance with and enforcement of the Plan will be consistent with the award and the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR), as applicable.
 
1.3.sec=Intramural Research Projects: Compliance with and enforcement of the Plan will be consistent with applicable NIH policies established by the NIH Office of Intramural Research and the applicable NIH ICO.

1.4.sec=Other funding agreements: Compliance with and enforcement of the Plan will be consistent with applicable NIH policies.

1.=[G/Z/ol/s4]

2.Ti=Post Funding or Support Period

2.sec=After the end of the funding period, non-compliance with the NIH ICO-approved Plan may be taken into account by the funding NIH ICO for future funding decisions for the recipient institution (e.g., as authorized in the NIH Grants Policy Statement, Section 8.5, Special Award Conditions, and Remedies for Noncompliance (Special Award Conditions and Enforcement Actions)).

=[G/Z/ol/2]
