Ti=MISCELLANEOUS.

=[G/Z/Base]

=[G/TechContracts/Assignment-NDA/Sec/Misc/0.md]

Independent.Ti=Independent Contractors.

Independent.sec=The parties are independent contractors and shall so represent themselves in all regards.

Independent.=[G/Z/Base]

Notice.Ti=Notices.

Notice.sec=Notices pursuant to this {_Agreement} shall be sent to the addresses below, or to such others as either party may provide in writing. Such notices will be deemed received at such addresses upon the earlier of (i) actual receipt or (ii) delivery in person, by fax with written confirmation of receipt, or by certified mail return receipt requested.

Notice.1.Ti=For {_Consultant}:

Notice.1.sec={Consultant.US.Notice.Block}

Notice.2.Ti=For Company:

Notice.2.sec={Company.US.Notice.Block}

Notice.=[G/Z/ol/2]

ForceMajeure.Ti=Force Majeure.

ForceMajeure.sec=No delay, failure, or default, other than a failure to pay fees when due, will constitute a breach of this {_Agreement} to the extent caused by acts of war, terrorism, hurricanes, earthquakes, other acts of God or of nature, strikes or other labor disputes, riots or other acts of civil disorder, embargoes, or other causes beyond the performing party’s reasonable control.

ForceMajeure.=[G/Z/Base]

SeverAndWaive.Ti=Severability & Waiver.

Note=AssignNDA has the same text, but in two sections, "Severability" and "No Waiver"

SeverAndWaive.sec={Sever.sec}  {Waive.sec}

SeverAndWaive.=[G/Z/Base]

LawAndJurisdiction.Ti=Choice of Law & Jurisdiction:

Note=LawAndJurisdiction.sec from AssignNDA

LawAndJurisdiction.=[G/Z/Base]

Construction.Ti=Construction.

Note=This section includes a number of issues that are separate sections in the AssignNDA (and that are often treated separately in agreements generally.)

Construction.1.0.sec=In the event of any conflict among the attachments to this {_Agreement} and this main body, the following order of precedence will govern, with lower numbers governing over higher ones:

Construction.1.1.sec=this main body of this {_Agreement}; and

Construction.1.2.sec=any {_SoW}, with more recent {_SoW}’s taking precedence over later ones.

Construction.1.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

Construction.2.sec=The parties agree that the terms of this {_Agreement} result from negotiations between them.

Construction.3.sec=This {_Agreement} will not be construed in favor of or against either party by reason of authorship.

Construction.4.sec=This {_Agreement} sets forth the entire agreement of the parties and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous writings, negotiations, and discussions with respect to its subject matter.

Construction.5.sec=Neither party has relied upon any such prior or contemporaneous communications.

Construction.6.sec=This {_Agreement} may be executed in one or more counterparts. Each counterpart will be an original, but all such counterparts will constitute a single instrument.

Construction.7.sec=This {_Agreement} may not be amended except through a written agreement executed by each party.

Construction.=[G/Z/para/s7]

sec=<ol><li>{Independent.Sec}</li><li>{Notice.Sec}</li><li>{ForceMajeure.Sec}</li><li>{SeverAndWaive.Sec}</li><li>{LawAndJurisdiction.Sec}</li><li>{Construction.Sec}</li></ol>


Independent.Xnum={Xnum}.<a class='xref' href='{!!!}Independent.Sec'>1</a>

Notice.Xnum={Xnum}.<a class='xref' href='{!!!}Notice.Sec'>2</a>

ForceMajeure.Xnum={Xnum}.<a class='xref' href='{!!!}ForceMajeure.Sec'>3</a>

SeverAndWaive.Xnum={Xnum}.<a class='xref' href='{!!!}SeverAndWaive.Sec'>4</a>

LawAndJurisdiction.Xnum={Xnum}.<a class='xref' href='{!!!}LawAndJurisdiction.Sec'>5</a>

Construction.Xnum={Xnum}.<a class='xref' href='{!!!}Construction.Sec'>6</a>

