
Ti=Miscellaneous


sec=<ol><li>{Independent.Sec}</li><li>{Notice.Sec}</li><li>{Sever.Sec}</li><li>{Waive.Sec}</li><li>{Law.Sec}</li><li>{Construe.Sec}</li><li>{Entire.Sec}</li><li>{Counterpart.Sec}</li><li>{Amend.Sec}</li></ol>


Independent.Ti=Independent Contractors

Independent.sec=The parties are independent contractors and will so represent themselves in all regards. Neither party is the agent of the other, and neither may make commitments on the other's behalf.

Independent.=[G/Z/Base]

Notice.Ti=Notices

Notice.0.sec=Notices pursuant to this {_Agreement} shall be sent to the addresses below, or to such others as either party may provide in writing.

Notice.1.0.sec=Such notices will be deemed received at such addresses upon the earlier of

Notice.1.1.sec=actual receipt or

Notice.1.2.sec=delivery in person, by fax with written confirmation of receipt, or by certified mail return receipt requested.

Notice.1.=[G/Z/ol-a/s2]

Notice.2.sec=<table><tr><td>{P1.US.Notice.Block}</td><td> &emsp; </td><td>{P2.US.Notice.Block}</td></tr></table>

Notice.=[G/Z/ol-none/s2]

Sever.Ti=Severability

Sever.sec=To the extent permitted by applicable law, the parties hereby waive any provision of law that would render any clause of this {_Agreement} invalid or otherwise unenforceable in any respect. In the event that a provision of this {_Agreement} is held to be invalid or otherwise unenforceable, such provision will be interpreted to fulfill its intended purpose to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, and the remaining provisions of this {_Agreement} will continue in full force and effect.

Sever.=[G/Z/Base]

Waive.Ti=No Waiver

Waive.sec=Neither party will be deemed to have waived any of its rights under this {_Agreement} by lapse of time or by any statement or representation other than by an authorized representative in an explicit written waiver. No waiver of a breach of this {_Agreement} will constitute a waiver of any other breach of this {_Agreement}.

Waive.=[G/Z/Base]

Law.Ti=Choice of Law & Jurisdiction

Law.sec=This {_Agreement} will be governed solely by the internal laws of {Law.State.the}, including applicable U.S. federal law, without reference to any conflicts of law principle that would apply the substantive laws of another jurisdiction to the parties' rights or duties. The parties consent to the personal and exclusive jurisdiction {Dispute.Forum.cl}. This {Misc.Law.Xref} governs all claims arising out of or related to this {_Agreement}, including without limitation tort claims.

Law.=[G/Z/Base]

Construe.Ti=Construction

Construe.sec=The parties agree that the terms of this {_Agreement} result from negotiations between them. This {_Agreement} will not be construed in favor of or against either party by reason of authorship.

Construe.=[G/Z/Base]

Entire.Ti=Entire Agreement

Entire.sec=This {_Agreement} sets forth the entire agreement of the parties and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous writings, negotiations, and discussions with respect to its subject matter. Neither party has relied upon any such prior or contemporaneous communications. This {_Agreement} does not commit either party to enter into any business relationship or execute any additional contract, including without limitation related to the Purpose.

Entire.=[G/Z/Base]

Counterpart.Ti=Execution in Counterparts

Counterpart.sec=This {_Agreement} may be executed in one or more counterparts. Each counterpart will be an original, but all such counterparts will constitute a single instrument.

Counterpart.=[G/Z/Base]

Amend.Ti=Amendment

Amend.sec=This {_Agreement} may not be amended except through a written agreement by authorized representatives of each party.

Amend.=[G/Z/Base]

=[G/Z/Base]
