Note.1=From https://opencovidpledge.org/license/intel-open-covid-license-v1-0/

Ti=Intel Open COVID License

Version.Name=INTEL OPEN COVID LICENSE 1.0

Version.Date=APRIL 7, 2020

Intro.1.sec=Intel Corporation (the “{Def.Pledgor.sec}”), in order to speed the development and dissemination of the technologies needed to end the {_COVID-19_Pandemic} and mitigate the effects of the disease, grants the license described below.


License.1.sec=The {_Pledgor} grants to every person and entity that wishes to accept it, a non-exclusive, royalty-free, worldwide, fully paid-up license (without the right to sublicense) (a) under {_Pledgor}’s patents to make, have made, use, sell, and import any patented invention, solely for the purpose of diagnosing, preventing, containing, and treating COVID-19 (the “{Def.Purpose.sec}”), and (b) under {_Pledgor}’s copyrights to reproduce, distribute, perform, display, and create derivative works of {_Pledgor}’s copyrighted works solely for the {_Purpose}.

License.2.sec=This license does not apply to the commercial sale of integrated circuits for data processing, memory and networking, including microprocessors, chipsets, FPGAs and ASICs.

License.3.sec=Any person or entity who exercises this license agrees by doing so to provide Intel, promptly after request, with documentation sufficient to confirm their compliance with these terms.

License.=[G/Z/para/s3]

Life.sec=This license is effective as of {StartDate.Date} and lasts until {StopDate.Date}, but in any event, not beyond January 1, 2023.

NonAssertion.sec=To the extent any laws regarding regulatory exclusivity for new pharmaceuticals are hereafter found to have applicability to the {_Pledgor}’s products, the {_Pledgor} will not assert any regulatory exclusivity against any entity for any of the activities licensed under Section {License.Xnum}, and the {_Pledgor} will not seek injunctive or regulatory relief to prevent any entity from engaging in such activities.


Warranty.Sec={Misc.Sec}

Misc.Ti=Miscellaneous

Misc.1.sec=The license granted herein does not supplement or modify any existing agreements between Pledgor and any person or entity who exercises this license.  In the event of any conflict between this license and an existing agreement, the terms of the existing agreement shall govern.

Misc.2.sec={Warranty.sec}

Misc.3.sec=Except as expressly set forth in this license, no other rights are granted, whether by implication, estoppel, statute or otherwise.

Misc.4.sec=All matters related to this license are governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, without reference to conflict-of-laws principles.

Misc.5.sec=All suits and other proceedings related to this Agreement are subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the federal and state courts located in the State of Delaware.

Misc.=[G/Z/para/s5]

=[G/OpenCovidPledge/Form/1.0.md]

_Purpose=<a href='#Def.Purpose.sec' class='definedterm'>Purpose</a>

Def.Purpose.sec={_Purpose}

Note.2="Agreement" is used in initial cap, but not defined.

Note.3="COVID-19 Pandemic" is not defined in Intel version of the license.