
Ti=Article 13

1.sec=In order to build mutual trust and confidence and to promote effective implementation, an enhanced transparency framework for action and support, with built-in flexibility which takes into account {Parties}’ different capacities and builds upon collective experience is hereby established.

2.sec=The transparency framework shall provide flexibility in the implementation of the provisions of this Article to those {developing_country_Parties} that need it in the light of their capacities. The modalities, procedures and guidelines referred to in paragraph 13 of this Article shall reflect such flexibility.

3.sec=The transparency framework shall build on and enhance the transparency arrangements under {the_Convention}, recognizing the special circumstances of the least developed countries and small island developing States, and be implemented in a facilitative, non-intrusive, non-punitive manner, respectful of national sovereignty, and avoid placing undue burden on {Parties}.

4.sec=The transparency arrangements under {the_Convention}, including national communications, biennial reports and biennial update reports, international assessment and review and international consultation and analysis, shall form part of the experience drawn upon for the development of the modalities, procedures and guidelines under paragraph 13 of this Article.

5.sec=The purpose of the framework for transparency of action is to provide a clear understanding of climate change action in the light of the objective of {the_Convention} as set out in its Article 2, including clarity and tracking of progress towards achieving {Parties}’ individual nationally determined contributions under Article 4, and {Parties}’ adaptation actions under Article 7, including good practices, priorities, needs and gaps, to inform the global stocktake under Article 14.

6.sec=The purpose of the framework for transparency of support is to provide clarity on support provided and received by relevant individual {Parties} in the context of climate change actions under Articles 4, 7, 9, 10 and 11, and, to the extent possible, to provide a full overview of aggregate financial support provided, to inform the global stocktake under Article 14.

7.sec=Each {Party} shall regularly provide the following information:

7.1.sec=A national inventory report of anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks of greenhouse gases, prepared using good practice methodologies accepted by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and agreed upon by the {Conference_of_the_Parties} serving as the meeting of the {Parties_to_the_Paris_Agreement};

7.2.sec=Information necessary to track progress made in implementing and achieving its nationally determined contribution under Article 4.

=[G/Z/ol/s2]

8.sec=Each {Party} should also provide information related to climate change impacts and adaptation under Article 7, as appropriate.

9.sec={Developed_country_Parties} shall, and other {Parties} that provide support should, provide information on financial, technology transfer and capacity-building support provided to {developing_country_Parties} under Article 9, 10 and 11.

10.sec={Developing_country_Parties} should provide information on financial, technology transfer and capacity-building support needed and received under Articles 9, 10 and 11.

11.sec=Information submitted by each {Party} under paragraphs 7 and 9 of this Article shall undergo a technical expert review, in accordance with decision 1/CP.21. For those {developing_country_Parties} that need it in the light of their capacities, the review process shall include assistance in identifying capacity-building needs. In addition, each {Party} shall participate in a facilitative, multilateral consideration of progress with respect to efforts under Article 9, and its respective implementation and achievement of its nationally determined contribution.

12.sec=The technical expert review under this paragraph shall consist of a consideration of the {Party}’s support provided, as relevant, and its implementation and achievement of its nationally determined contribution. The review shall also identify areas of improvement for the {Party}, and include a review of the consistency of the information with the modalities, procedures and guidelines referred to in paragraph 13 of this Article, taking into account the flexibility accorded to the {Party} under paragraph 2 of this Article. The review shall pay particular attention to the respective national capabilities and circumstances of {developing_country_Parties}.

13.sec=The {Conference_of_the_Parties} serving as the meeting of the {Parties_to_the_Paris_Agreement} shall, at its first session, building on experience from the arrangements related to transparency under {the_Convention}, and elaborating on the provisions in this Article, adopt common modalities, procedures and guidelines, as appropriate, for the transparency of action and support.

14.sec=Support shall be provided to developing countries for the implementation of this Article.

15.sec=Support shall also be provided for the building of transparency-related capacity of {developing_country_Parties} on a continuous basis.

=[G/Z/ol/s15]
