Ti=Overview: The Association & Council

1.sec=The Libra Association is an independent, Swiss not-for-profit organization with the mission to empower billions of people through the creation of a simple global currency and financial infrastructure. The association membership is made up of the validator nodes of the Libra network. Initially, these are global companies, social impact partners (SIPs), and academic institutions — the Libra Association's Founding Members. Eventually, the association will include any entity that operates a validator node and holds sufficient stake in Libra.

2.sec=The association's role is to coordinate among the validator nodes the efforts to develop and secure the network and to promote their joint vision of financial inclusion. The two main areas of coordination and governance are 1) technical: drive toward alignment among the validator nodes and open-source community around the network's technical roadmap; and 2) financial: manage the reserve and allocate funds to social-impact causes (more below).

3.sec=In these early years of the Libra network, there are additional roles that need to be performed by the association: the recruiting of Founding Members to serve as validator nodes; the raising of funds from the members as well as other investors through the sale of Libra Investment Tokens (a token that grants rights to a share of the future interest accumulated in the Libra Reserve); the design and implementation of incentive programs, including the distribution of such incentives to Founding Members; and the distribution of dividends to Libra Investment Token investors. As the Libra network grows and matures into a fully permissionless blockchain in which anyone can serve as a node, these roles may no longer be required.

4.sec=The governing body of the Libra Association is the Libra Association Council, which is comprised of a representative of each member of the association. Operating and policy decisions of the council require various voting thresholds depending on the importance of the decision.

5.sec=A note on Facebook, Inc.'s role — Facebook teams played a key role in the creation of the Libra Association and the Libra Blockchain, working with the other Founding Members. While final decision-making authority rests with the association, Facebook is expected to maintain a leadership role through 2019. Facebook created Calibra, a regulated subsidiary, to ensure appropriate separation between social and financial data and to build and operate services on its behalf on top of the Libra network. Once the Libra network launches, Facebook, and its affiliates, will have the same commitments, privileges, and financial obligations as any other Founding Member. As one member among many, Facebook's role in governance of the association will be equal to that of its peers.

6.sec=The following sections outline in detail the proposed specifics of responsibilities, roles, and governance mechanisms of the Libra Association. This proposal will serve as a basis for discussion among the association's members, leading to the modification of its charter and formulation of its bylaws.

=[G/Z/ol/s6]
