Doc.Ti=DRAFT CONTRACT ON DATA FLOW AND REUSE

Def.Partners.cl=Hereinafter referred to as "the partners"

ContractTermination.NoticePeriod.cl=three (3) months

ApplicableLaw.Adj=French

Dispute.Forum.cl=the Paris Court of Justice


1.Ti=Article 1: Definitions

1.1.sec=the contract: means this contract, its annexes and any amendments thereto;

1.2.0.sec=data: shall mean data relating to 

1.2.1.sec=the data subject's school and university education; 

1.2.2.sec=the data subject's grades; 

1.2.3.sec=data relating to the data subject's soft skills; 

1.2.4.sec=data relating to the data subject's hard skills; 

1.2.5.sec=data relating to the data subject's professional projects; 

1.2.6.sec=data relating to the data subject's professional experience; 

1.2.7.sec=data relating to the data subject's leisure activities; 

1.2.8.sec=these are personal data within the meaning of Article 4.Article 4(1) of the GDPR, i.e. "any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person (hereinafter referred to as "data subject"); an "identifiable natural person" is a natural person who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to an identifier, such as a name, an identification number, location data, an on-line identifier, or to one or more factors specific to his or her physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity";

1.2.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s8]

1.3.0.sec=the purposes of the data processing including re-use thereof within the framework of this contract: 

1.3.1.sec=determining the soft skills of the data subject ;

1.3.2.sec=determine the hard skills of the data subject ;

1.3.3.sec=propose professional paths to the data subject ;

1.3.4.sec=propose professional paths to other persons ;

1.3.5.sec=propose mentors to the data subject;

1.3.6.sec=obtain statistics on the basis of aggregated data ;

1.3.7.sec=Collect data on the data subject to assist in his or her professional orientation;

1.3.8.sec=ensure that the consent of the data subject is respected;

1.3.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s8]

1.4.sec=Processing: within the meaning of Article 4 of the GDPR means "any operation or set of operations which is performed upon personal data or sets of personal data, whether or not by automatic means, such as collection, recording, organisation, structuring, storage, adaptation or alteration, retrieval, consultation, use, disclosure by transmission, dissemination or otherwise making available, alignment or combination, limitation, erasure or destruction";

1.5.sec=controller: within the meaning of Article 4.7 of the GDPR means "the natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other body which alone or jointly with others determines the purposes and means of the processing; where the purposes and means of such processing are determined by Union law or the law of a Member State, the controller may be designated or the specific criteria for its designation may be laid down by Union law or the law of a Member State". The partners in this contract are referred to as data controllers.

1.=[G/Z/ol/s5]

2.Ti=Article 2: Object of the contract 

2.sec=The purpose of this contract is to define the terms and conditions for the circulation and re-use of the data described below between the partners via the operator.

3.Ti=Article 3: Obligations of the operator

3.1.sec=Personal data will be processed on the basis of processing corresponding to Article 6(a) of the GDPR, i.e. consent collected under the conditions of Article 7 of the GDPR and free, informed and unequivocal.

3.2.sec=The operator undertakes to ensure that the consent of the data subjects whose data has been collected for processing is respected. To this end, the operator guarantees that the partners will only access data for which the data subject has given his or her consent, in compliance with the sole purposes set out in this contract by the partners.

3.3.0.sec=Consequently, the operator has an obligation to : 

3.3.1.sec=obtain the consent of the persons whose data will be collected and used in accordance with the GDPR; and to inform the data subjects that this consent will be used as a basis for the circulation of their data to the partners for the purposes and uses and access to said data mentioned above;

3.3.2.sec=transmit the consent documents to the partners and give them access so that they can check the validity of the consents before processing the data collected;

3.3.3.sec=allow access only to data whose circulation has been authorised under the terms of this contract;

3.3.4.sec=collect consents only for the purposes specified under the terms of this contract;

3.3.5.sec=establish and maintain proof and record of consents and partner access to data, as well as proof and record of partner verification of consents with the operator;

3.3.6.sec=provide the partners with a technical protocol and the means required to make the data available in accordance with the consents collected ;

3.3.7.sec=be fully transparent about the technical means it uses to manage consent and access to data ;

3.3.8.0.sec=to respect the state of the art standards guaranteeing person-centred use of data ;

3.3.8.1.sec=encryption of consent data

3.3.8.2.sec=electronic signature of consent documents

3.3.8.3.sec=secure transfer of consent

3.3.8.4.sec=single key authentication

3.3.8.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s4]

3.3.9.sec=to make every effort to acquire official and relevant certifications on the protection of privacy;

3.3.10.sec=to enable data subjects to give and revoke their consent from a single interface, independent of the partners.

3.3.=[G/Z/ol/s10]

3.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

4.Ti=Article 4: Obligations of the partners

4.1.sec=The partners undertake to grant access to the relevant data held by them and to process the data to which they have access in accordance with the terms and conditions set out in this contract.

4.2.sec=The partners access the data in accordance with the authorisations issued by the operator.

4.3.sec=Within the structures administered by the partners, only persons authorised by the partners are allowed access to the said data.

4.4.sec=The partners make the data available in accordance with the authorisations issued by the operator.

4.5.sec=The partners use the data only for the permitted purposes and check the validity of the data subject's consent via the operator each time the data is processed. As soon as consent is withdrawn, the partner undertakes to cease processing of the data concerned without delay.

4.6.sec=Each partner undertakes not to pass on to third parties to the contract any data that has been communicated to it by another partner. 

4.7.sec=The partners undertake to implement all useful means to interact effectively with the operator for the proper execution of this contract.

4.=[G/Z/ol/s7]

5.Ti=Article 5: Modalities of re-use of collected data

5.1.sec=All the provisions of the general data protection regulations apply to this contract and to all data processing operations carried out on the data.

5.2.sec=The re-use of the data shall be solely for the purposes defined in Article 1. 

5.3.sec=Access to and re-use of the data is subject to obtaining the consent of the persons concerned by such processing in accordance with the provisions of this contract. 

5.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

6.Ti=Article 6: Procedures for integrating a third party into the contract as a partner

6.1.sec=The inclusion of a third party in the contract as a partner is subject to a joint decision by the partners.

6.2.sec=The third party must propose data to be made available, useful to one or more of the partners, and make known the data it wishes to use as well as the purposes of this use.

6.3.sec=On receipt of this information, the partners holding the data that the third party wishes to have at their disposal decide by an absolute majority whether to include this third party in the contract.

6.4.sec=All partners are informed of this decision and have thirty (30) days to issue a duly substantiated objection.

6.5.sec=If at least one third of the partners object to this entry, a general vote of the partners shall be held for the entry of the third party.

6.6.sec=Without opposition from a third of the partners and if the partners holding the data concerned have an absolute majority for the entry of the third party, then the third party enters the contract as a partner.

6.=[G/Z/ol/s6]

7.Ti=Article 7: Modalities for adding a new type of data or purpose

7.1.sec=If a partner wishes to add a new type of data or a new type of purpose for the use of the data, it submits its request to the other partners.

7.2.sec=On receipt of this information, the partners involved in this request decide by an absolute majority whether or not to add the data or purposes concerned.

7.3.sec=All partners are informed of this decision and have thirty (30) days to issue a duly substantiated objection.

7.4.sec=If one third of the partners object to this entry, a general vote of the partners is held.

7.5.sec=Without opposition from a third party of the partners and if the partners holding the data concerned have an absolute majority, the data concerned or the purposes are added to the present contract by means of an amendment.

7.=[G/Z/ol/s5]

8.Ti=Article 8: Sanctioning partners in the event of failure to meet their obligations

8.1.sec=After a warning issued by the operator, the partner having failed to fulfil one of its obligations and not having implemented any useful measure as soon as possible for its perfect execution, will be subject to sanctions decided by the Parties in accordance with article 1217 of the civil code.

8.2.sec=Any failure to comply with the provisions of the GDPR will be sanctioned in the same way as failures to comply with the obligations provided for in this contract. 

8.3.0.sec=Some shortcomings may be noted by the operator: 

8.3.1.sec=failure to verify or improperly verify the validity of the consent during data processing.

8.3.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s1]

8.4.0.sec=Breaches of the GDPR can be identified by different entities:

8.4.1.sec=by complaint from the persons concerned ;

8.4.2.sec=by report of the supervisory authority.

8.4.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

8.5.sec=This exclusion may be accompanied by the filing of a complaint with the Data Protection Authority.

8.=[G/Z/ol/s5]

9.Ti=Article 9: Sanction of the operator in the event of failure to fulfil its obligations

9.sec=In the event of failure by the operator to comply with one of its obligations, duly noted according to one of the methods described below, the operator shall have thirty (30) days to remedy such failure. Failing this, the poor performance by the operator of its obligations shall be resolved by sanctions decided by the Parties in accordance with Article 1217 of the Civil Code.

10.Ti=Article 10: Duration of the contract 

10.1.sec=This contract is concluded for an indefinite period of time.

10.2.sec=The parties may terminate it at any time, subject to a notice period of {ContractTermination.NoticePeriod.cl}, either by registered letter with acknowledgement of receipt, or by e-mail.

10.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

11.Ti=Article 11: Monitoring of standards

11.sec=The parties shall meet every month to monitor the implementation of the standards and decide on any changes that it is desirable to make to the terms and conditions of this contract.

12.Ti=Article 12: Applicable law and settlement of disputes

12.1.sec=This contract is subject to {ApplicableLaw.Adj} law and European regulations on data protection.

12.2.sec=Any disputes that may arise between the Parties for their resolution will be brought before {Dispute.Forum.cl}.

12.3.sec=Before any referral to the latter, the Parties undertake to meet in order to find an amicable solution to the dispute. 

12.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

=[G/Agt-Form-CmA/US/0.md]

=[G/Z/ol/12]


