Ti=What are the risks of taking part in All of Us?

1.sec=The main risk of taking part in All of Us is to your privacy. A data breach is when someone sees or uses data without permission. If there is a data breach, someone could see or use the data we have about you. Even without your name, there is a chance someone could figure out who you are. They could misuse your data. We believe the chance of this is very small, but it is not zero.

2.sec=We will gather data from you through the All of Us app and/or website. You may be asked to wear a fitness tracker. There is a risk to your privacy whenever you use an app, website, or fitness tracker. In general, there is no additional risk to your privacy if you use any of them as part of All of Us. That said, we will be gathering many different types of data in your All of Us record. If there is a data breach, there may be additional risk to your privacy because of the amount of data in your All of Us record.

3.sec=Researchers will use basic facts like your race, ethnic group, and sex in their studies. This data helps researchers learn if the things that affect health are the same in different groups of people. These studies could one day help people of the same race, ethnic group, or sex as you. However, there is a risk that others could use this data to support harmful ideas about groups.

4.sec=If you give a blood sample, the most common risks are brief pain and bruising. Some people may become dizzy or feel faint. There is also a small risk of infection.

5.sec=Taking part in All of Us may have risks that we don’t know about yet. We will tell you if we learn anything that might change your decision to take part.

=[G/Z/paras/s5]
