Note=copies, without permission, from https://nonprofitdocuments.law.stanford.edu/non-disclosure/non-disclosure-agreement-mutual/

Note=SLS SAMPLE DOCUMENT 08/07/19

Doc.Ti=Mutual Information Sharing Agreement

Note=This document does not reflect or constitute legal advice. This is a sample made available by the Organizations and Transactions Clinic at Stanford Law School on the basis set out at nonprofitdocuments.law.stanford.edu. Your use of this document does not create an attorney-client relationship with the Clinic or any of its lawyers or students.

This is a Mutual Information Sharing Agreement (“{_Agreement}”) dated as of ________, 20___, between {_Client}, a California nonprofit corporation (“{_Client}”), and ___________, a ___________ (“{_ABC}”).

Why.Ti=Background

Why.sec={_Client} and {_ABC} are discussing a potential relationship (“{_Relationship}”). In connection with those discussions, {_Client} and {_ABC} may make available to one another certain proprietary or confidential information. This {_Agreement} describes the basis upon which {_Client} and {_ABC} will hold and use that information.

sec=<ol class="secs-and"><li>{Conf.Sec}<li>{Relate.Sec}<li>{Misc.Sec}</ol>

Conf.=[G/SLS/NFP/Non-Disclosure/Mutual/Sec/Conf/0.md]

Relate.=[G/SLS/NFP/Non-Disclosure/Mutual/Sec/Relate/0.md]

Misc.=[G/SLS/NFP/Non-Disclosure/Mutual/Sec/Misc/0.md]

=[G/Agt-Form-CmA/US/0.md]

=[G/Z/Base]

{_Client} and {_ABC} executed this {_Agreement} as of the date stated in its first paragraph.

{_Client} {_ABC} By: By: Name: Name: Title: Title: Email: Email: Address: Address:  
