Original.URL=https://contractfortheweb.org/privacy-policy/ /// visited 2019-11-25

Original.Copyright=©2008–2019 World Wide Web Foundation This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International Licence 

Original.ProseObject=[G/ContractForTheWeb/PrivacyPolicy/Form/Original-2019-09-06.md]

Ti=Privacy notice

RevisionDate.sec=Updated September 6, 2019 (CFTW) (see GitHub for the Prose Object history.

Intro.1.sec=We care deeply about online privacy. This privacy policy is designed to let you know how we treat your personal information and the ways we work to keep it safe and private. We also want to clearly flag the risks associated with using our website, as with any website.

Intro.2.sec=This website ‘www.contractfortheweb.org’ is managed by the World Wide Web Foundation, a US-registered not-for profit under Section 501(c)(3) and we treat the data collected on this site the same way we do our core website ‘<a href="http://www.webfoundation.org">www.webfoundation.org</a>’.

Intro.3.sec=If you have any questions or concerns about your data or this policy, please email <a href="mailto:contact@webfoundation.org">contact@webfoundation.org</a>.

InfoCollected..Ti=What information do we collect?

InfoCollected.Minimize.sec=We try to collect as little information as possible in order to achieve our mission.

InfoCollected.How.0.sec=This site collects personal information in two ways:

InfoCollected.How.1.sec=First, to help us understand how this site is being used, we collect non-personally identifiable information about website visitors using <a href="https://matomo.org/">Matomo</a> — a privacy-focused web analytics program. This includes IP geolocation data, browser and domain information, in addition to visitor usage patterns including which pages people view and for how long. You can read Matomo’s Privacy Policy: <a href="https://matomo.org/privacy-policy/">https://matomo.org/privacy-policy/</a>

InfoCollected.How.2.sec=Second, we also collect personal information such as your name and email address, with your consent, in specific circumstances such as when you sign up to support the Contract for the Web. We collect and store this data using Mailchimp. You can read Mailchimp’s privacy policy here: <a href="http://mailchimp.com/legal/privacy/">http://mailchimp.com/legal/privacy/</a>.

Cookie.Ti=Cookies

Cookie.sec=We use cookies for a limited number of purposes. A “cookie” is a small element of data that our site can send to your browser, which may then be stored on your hard drive. Before sending a cookie, this site will ask for your consent. If you are concerned about your privacy and the use of cookie technology you can chose to decline. You may also set your browser to refuse the cookies our site attempts to send you.

InfoUse.Ti=How do we use personal information?

InfoUse.1.sec=We use the non-personally identifiable data gathered from website visitors to understand how the website is being used and to improve the user experience of our website over time. This data also gives us information about the effectiveness of our campaign.

InfoUse.2.sec=When people chose to share personal information with us by filling out forms on the website, we use this to gauge the number of people who have signed up to support the Contract for the Web. We may also use email addresses provided to send users emails, with their consent. People can choose to unsubscribe to emails at any time, or have us change or delete their data entirely by emailing <a href="mailto:contact@webfoundation.org">contact@webfoundation.org</a>.

InfoDisclose.Ti=Disclosure of information

InfoDisclose.1.sec=We treat all personal data confidentially and will not share with any third parties, other than the services outlined above.

InfoDisclose.2.sec=Any subpoena or attempts by government agencies or private sector organisations to gain access to any information that you give us will be vigorously challenged.

InfoDisclose.3.sec=In the unlikely event that we are required by law to disclose the information that you have submitted, we will attempt to provide you with notice (unless we are prohibited from doing so) that a request for your information has been made, in order to give you an opportunity to object to the disclosure.

InfoDisclose.4.sec=In addition, we will independently object to requests for access to information about users of our site that we believe to be improper.

InfoDisclose.5.sec=Although we make every effort to store information collected by World Wide Web Foundation in the securest of operating environments, no organisation or website can guarantee complete security. Therefore, if you believe that you may be at risk by putting your name to an online campaign, we would encourage you to consider the implications before doing so.

LinkOut.Ti=Linking to other websites

LinkOut.sec=Any links to third-party websites, operate according to their own terms of use and privacy policies. The World Wide Web Foundation has no control over such third-party websites and does not own any data contained therein, and therefore does not endorse and is not responsible or liable for any content, advertising, products or other materials on or available from such websites.

RightToCorrect.Ti=Updating your information

RightToCorrect.sec=You may choose to view, correct, update, or delete the information you have submitted to us by sending an email requesting changes to <a href="mailto:contact@webfoundation.org">contact@webfoundation.org</a>.

Misc.Amend.Ti=Changes to this privacy policy

Misc.Amend.sec=This Privacy Policy may change from time to time. We will post any changes on this page and, if the changes are significant, we will provide a more prominent notice.

Note=widgets that put the paragraphs together


0.sec={Intro.sec}

Intro.=[G/Z/paras/s3]

InfoCollected.2.=[G/Z/ol-none/s2]

InfoCollected.sec=<ul type="none"><li>{InfoCollected.Minimize.sec}</li><li>{InfoCollected.How.sec}</ul>

InfoCollected.How.=[G/Z/ol-none/s2]

InfoCollected.=[G/Z/Base]

Cookie.=[G/Z/Base]

InfoUse.=[G/Z/paras/s2]

InfoDisclose.=[G/Z/paras/s5]

RightToCorrect.=[G/Z/Base]

Misc.Amend.=[G/Z/Base]

sec={Intro.sec}<ol><li>{InfoCollected.Sec}</li><li>{Cookie.Sec}</li><li>{InfoUse.Sec}</li><li>{InfoDisclose.Sec}</li><li>{RightToCorrect.Sec}</li><li>{Misc.Amend.Sec}</li></ol>

=[G/Z/Base]

