Ti=22603

1.0.sec=Before beginning to initially train a {_covered_model}, the {_developer} shall do all of the following:

1.1.sec=Implement reasonable administrative, technical, and physical cybersecurity protections to prevent unauthorized access to, misuse of, or unsafe {_post-training_modification}s of, the {_covered_model} and all {_covered_model_derivative}s controlled by the {_developer} that are appropriate in light of the risks associated with the {_covered_model}, including from {_advanced_persistent_threat}s or other sophisticated actors.

1.2.0.sec=

1.2.1.sec=Implement the capability to promptly enact a {_full_shutdown}.

1.2.2.sec=When enacting a {_full_shutdown}, the {_developer} shall take into account, as appropriate, the risk that a shutdown of the {_covered_model}, or particular {_covered_model_derivative}s, could cause disruptions to critical infrastructure.

1.2.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s2]

1.3.0.sec=Implement a written and separate {_safety_and_security_protocol} that does all of the following:

1.3.1.sec=Specifies protections and procedures that, if successfully implemented, would successfully comply with the {_developer}’s duty to take reasonable care to avoid producing a {_covered_model} or {_covered_model_derivative} that poses an unreasonable risk of causing or materially enabling a {_critical_harm}.

1.3.2.sec=States compliance requirements in an objective manner and with sufficient detail and specificity to allow the {_developer} or a third party to readily ascertain whether the requirements of the {_safety_and_security_protocol} have been followed.

1.3.3.0.sec=Identifies a testing procedure, which takes safeguards into account as appropriate, that takes reasonable care to evaluate if both of the following are true:

1.3.3.1.sec=A {_covered_model} poses an unreasonable risk of causing or enabling a {_critical_harm}.

1.3.3.2.sec={_Covered_model_derivative}s pose an unreasonable risk of causing or enabling a {_critical_harm}.

1.3.3.=[G/Z/ol-i/s2]

1.3.4.sec=Describes in detail how the testing procedure assesses the risks associated with {_post-training_modification}s.

1.3.5.sec=Describes in detail how the testing procedure addresses the possibility that a {_covered_model} or {_covered_model_derivative} can be used to make {_post-training_modification}s or create another {_covered_model} in a manner that may cause or materially enable a {_critical_harm}.

1.3.6.sec=Describes in detail how the {_developer} will fulfill their obligations under this chapter.

1.3.7.sec=Describes in detail how the {_developer} intends to implement the safeguards and requirements referenced in this section.

1.3.8.sec=Describes in detail the conditions under which a {_developer} would enact a {_full_shutdown}.

1.3.9.sec=Describes in detail the procedure by which the {_safety_and_security_protocol} may be modified.

1.3.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s9]

1.4.sec=Ensure that the {_safety_and_security_protocol} is implemented as written, including by designating senior {_person}nel to be responsible for ensuring compliance by employees and contractors working on a {_covered_model}, or any {_covered_model_derivative}s controlled by the {_developer}, monitoring and reporting on implementation.

1.5.sec=Retain an unredacted copy of the {_safety_and_security_protocol} for as long as the {_covered_model} is made available for commercial, public, or foreseeably public use plus five years, including records and dates of any updates or revisions.

1.6.sec=Conduct an annual review of the {_safety_and_security_protocol} to account for any changes to the capabilities of the {_covered_model} and industry best practices and, if necessary, make modifications to the policy.

1.7.0.sec=

1.7.1.0.sec=

1.7.1.1.sec=Conspicuously publish a copy of the redacted {_safety_and_security_protocol} and transmit a copy of the redacted {_safety_and_security_protocol} to the Attorney General.

1.7.1.2.0.sec=A redaction in the {_safety_and_security_protocol} may be made only if the redaction is reasonably necessary to protect any of the following:

1.7.1.2.1.sec=Public safety.

1.7.1.2.2.sec=Trade secrets, as defined in Section 3426.1 of the Civil Code.

1.7.1.2.3.sec=Confidential information pursuant to state and federal law.

1.7.1.2.=[G/Z/ol-II/s3]

1.7.1.=[G/Z/ol-i/s2]

1.7.2.sec=The {_developer} shall grant to the Attorney General access to the unredacted {_safety_and_security_protocol} upon request.

1.7.3.sec=A {_safety_and_security_protocol} disclosed to the Attorney General pursuant to this paragraph is exempt from the California Public Records Act (Division 10 (commencing with Section 7920.000) of Title 1 of the Government Code).
(D) If the {_safety_and_security_protocol} is materially modified, conspicuously publish and transmit to the Attorney General an updated redacted copy within 30 days of the modification.

1.7.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s3]

1.8.sec=Take reasonable care to implement other appropriate measures to prevent {_covered_model}s and {_covered_model_derivative}s from posing unreasonable risks of causing or materially enabling {_critical_harm}s.

1.=[G/Z/ol/s8]

2.0.sec=Before using a {_covered_model} or {_covered_model_derivative} for a purpose not exclusively related to the training or reasonable evaluation of the {_covered_model} or compliance with state or federal law or before making a {_covered_model} or {_covered_model_derivative} available for commercial or public, or foreseeably public, use, the {_developer} of a {_covered_model} shall do all of the following:

2.1.sec=Assess whether the {_covered_model} is reasonably capable of causing or materially enabling a {_critical_harm}.

2.2.sec=Record, as and when reasonably possible, and retain for as long as the {_covered_model} is made available for commercial, public, or foreseeably public use plus five years information on the specific tests and test results used in the assessment pursuant to paragraph (1) that provides sufficient detail for third parties to replicate the testing procedure.

2.3.sec=Take reasonable care to implement appropriate safeguards to prevent the {_covered_model} and {_covered_model_derivative}s from causing or materially enabling a {_critical_harm}.

2.4.sec=Take reasonable care to ensure, to the extent reasonably possible, that the {_covered_model}’s actions and the actions of {_covered_model_derivative}s, as well as {_critical_harm}s resulting from their actions, can be accurately and reliably attributed to them.

2.=[G/Z/ol/s4]

3.sec=A {_developer} shall not use a {_covered_model} or {_covered_model_derivative} for a purpose not exclusively related to the training or reasonable evaluation of the {_covered_model} or compliance with state or federal law or make a {_covered_model} or a {_covered_model_derivative} available for commercial or public, or foreseeably public, use, if there is an unreasonable risk that the {_covered_model} or {_covered_model_derivative} will cause or materially enable a {_critical_harm}.

4.sec=A {_developer} of a {_covered_model} shall annually reevaluate the procedures, policies, protections, capabilities, and safeguards implemented pursuant to this section.

5.0.sec=

5.1.sec=Beginning January 1, 2026, a {_developer} of a {_covered_model} shall annually retain a third-party auditor that conducts audits consistent with best practices for auditors to perform an independent audit of compliance with the requirements of this section.

5.2.sec=An auditor shall conduct audits consistent with regulations issued by the Government Operations Agency pursuant to subdivision (d) of Section 11547.6 of the Government Code.

5.3.sec=The auditor shall be granted access to unredacted materials as necessary to comply with the auditor’s obligations under this subdivision.

5.4.0.sec=The auditor shall produce an audit report including all of the following:

5.4.1.sec=A detailed assessment of the {_developer}’s steps to comply with the requirements of this section.

5.4.2.sec=If applicable, any identified instances of noncompliance with the requirements of this section, and any recommendations for how the {_developer} can improve its policies and processes for ensuring compliance with the requirements of this section.

5.4.3.sec=A detailed assessment of the {_developer}’s internal controls, including its designation and empowerment of senior {_person}nel responsible for ensuring compliance by the {_developer}, its employees, and its contractors.

5.4.4.sec=The signature of the lead auditor certifying the results of the auditor.

5.4.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s4]

5.5.sec=The {_developer} shall retain an unredacted copy of the audit report for as long as the {_covered_model} is made available for commercial, public, or foreseeably public use plus five years.

5.6.0.sec=

5.6.1.0.sec=

5.6.1.1.sec=The {_developer} shall conspicuously publish a redacted copy of the auditor’s report and transmit to the Attorney General a copy of the redacted auditor’s report.

5.6.1.2.0.sec=A redaction in the auditor’s report may be made only if the redaction is reasonably necessary to protect any of the following:

5.6.1.2.1.sec=Public safety.

5.6.1.2.2.sec=Trade secrets, as defined in Section 3426.1 of the Civil Code.

5.6.1.2.3.sec=Confidential information pursuant to state and federal law.

5.6.1.2.=[G/Z/ol-II/s3]

5.6.1.=[G/Z/ol-i/s2]

5.6.2.sec=The {_developer} shall grant to the Attorney General access to the unredacted auditor’s report upon request.

5.6.3.sec=An auditor’s report disclosed to the Attorney General pursuant to this paragraph is exempt from the California Public Records Act (Division 10 (commencing with Section 7920.000) of Title 1 of the Government Code).

5.6.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s3]

5.7.sec=An auditor shall not knowingly make a material misrepresentation in the auditor’s report.

5.=[G/Z/ol/s7]

6.0.sec=

6.1.0.sec=

6.1.1.sec=A {_developer} of a {_covered_model} shall annually submit to the Attorney General a statement of compliance with the requirements of this section signed by the chief technology officer, or a more senior corporate officer, that meets the requirements of paragraph (2).

6.1.2.sec=This paragraph applies if the {_covered_model} or any {_covered_model_derivative}s controlled by the {_developer} remain in commercial or public use or remain available for commercial or public use.

6.1.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s2]

6.2.0.sec=In a statement submitted pursuant to paragraph (1), a {_developer} shall specify or provide, at a minimum, all of the following:

6.2.1.sec=An assessment of the nature and magnitude of {_critical_harm}s that the {_covered_model} or {_covered_model_derivative}s may reasonably cause or materially enable and the outcome of the assessment required by paragraph (1) of subdivision (b).

6.2.2.sec=An assessment of the risk that compliance with the {_safety_and_security_protocol} may be insufficient to prevent the {_covered_model} or {_covered_model_derivative}s from causing or materially enabling {_critical_harm}s.

6.2.3.sec=A description of the process used by the signing officer to verify compliance with the requirements of this section, including a description of the materials reviewed by the signing officer, a description of testing or other evaluation performed to support the statement and the contact information of any third parties relied upon to validate compliance.

6.2.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s3]

6.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

7.sec=A {_developer} of a {_covered_model} shall report each {_artificial_intelligence_safety_incident} affecting the {_covered_model}, or any {_covered_model_derivative}s controlled by the {_developer}, to the Attorney General within 72 hours of the {_developer} learning of the {_artificial_intelligence_safety_incident} or within 72 hours of the {_developer} learning facts sufficient to establish a reasonable belief that an {_artificial_intelligence_safety_incident} has occurred.

8.0.sec=

8.1.sec=A {_developer} shall submit to the Attorney General a statement described by subdivision (f) no more than 30 days after using a {_covered_model} or {_covered_model_derivative} for a purpose not exclusively related to the training or reasonable evaluation of the {_covered_model} or compliance with state or federal law or making a {_covered_model} or {_covered_model_derivative} available for commercial or public, or foreseeably public, use for the first time.

8.2.sec=This subdivision does not apply with respect to a {_covered_model_derivative} if the {_developer} submitted a statement described by subdivision (f) for the applicable {_covered_model} from which the {_covered_model_derivative} is derived.

8.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

9.sec=In fulfilling its obligations under this chapter, a {_developer} shall consider industry best practices and applicable guidance from the U.S. Artificial Intelligence Safety Institute, National Institute of Standards and Technology, the Government Operations Agency, and other reputable standard-setting organizations.

10.0.sec=

10.1.sec=This section shall not apply to products or services to the extent that the requirements would strictly conflict with the terms of a contract with a federal government entity and a {_developer} of a {_covered_model}.

10.2.sec=This section applies to the development, use, or commercial or public release of a {_covered_model} or {_covered_model_derivative} for any use that is not the subject of a contract with a federal government entity, even if that {_covered_model} or {_covered_model_derivative} has already been developed, trained, or used by a federal government entity.

10.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

=[G/Z/ol-a/s10]
