Ti=22604

1.0.sec=A {_person} that operates a {_computing_cluster} shall implement written policies and procedures to do all of the following when a customer utilizes compute resources that would be sufficient to train a {_covered_model}:

1.1.0.sec=Obtain the prospective customer’s basic identifying information and business purpose for utilizing the {_computing_cluster}, including all of the following:

1.1.1.sec=The identity of the prospective customer.

1.1.2.sec=The means and source of payment, including any associated financial institution, credit card number, account number, customer identifier, transaction identifiers, or virtual currency wallet or wallet address identifier.

1.1.3.sec=The email address and telephonic contact information used to verify the prospective customer’s identity.

1.1.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s3]

1.2.sec=Assess whether the prospective customer intends to utilize the {_computing_cluster} to train a {_covered_model}.

1.3.sec=If a customer repeatedly utilizes computer resources that would be sufficient to train a {_covered_model}, validate the information initially collected pursuant to paragraph (1) and conduct the assessment required pursuant to paragraph (2) prior to each utilization.

1.4.sec=Retain a customer’s Internet Protocol addresses used for access or administration and the date and time of each access or administrative action.

1.5.sec=Maintain for seven years and provide to the Attorney General, upon request, appropriate records of actions taken under this section, including policies and procedures put into effect.

1.6.sec=Implement the capability to promptly enact a {_full_shutdown} of any resources being used to train or operate models under the customer’s control.

1.=[G/Z/ol/s6]

2.sec=A {_person} that operates a {_computing_cluster} shall consider industry best practices and applicable guidance from the U.S. Artificial Intelligence Safety Institute, National Institute of Standards and Technology, and other reputable standard-setting organizations.

3.sec=In complying with the requirements of this section, a {_person} that operates a {_computing_cluster} may impose reasonable requirements on customers to prevent the collection or retention of {_person}al information that the {_person} that operates a {_computing_cluster} would not otherwise collect or retain, including a requirement that a corporate customer submit corporate contact information rather than information that would identify a specific individual.

=[G/Z/ol-a/s3]
