Ti=22606

1.0.sec=The Attorney General may bring a civil action for a violation of this chapter and to recover all of the following:

1.1.sec=For a violation that causes death or bodily harm to another human, harm to property, theft or misappropriation of property, or that constitutes an imminent risk or threat to public safety that occurs on or after January 1, 2026, a civil penalty in an amount not exceeding 10 percent of the cost of the quantity of computing power used to train the covered model to be calculated using average market prices of cloud compute at the time of training for a first violation and in an amount not exceeding 30 percent of that value for any subsequent violation.

1.2.sec=For a violation of Section 22607 that would constitute a violation of the Labor Code, a civil penalty specified in subdivision (f) of Section 1102.5 of the Labor Code.

1.3.sec=For a person that operates a computing cluster for a violation of Section 22604, for an auditor for a violation of paragraph (6) of subdivision (e) of Section 22603, or for an auditor who intentionally or with reckless disregard violates a provision of subdivision (e) of Section 22603 other than paragraph (6) or regulations issued by the Government Operations Agency pursuant to Section 11547.6 of the Government Code, a civil penalty in an amount not exceeding fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) for a first violation of Section 22604, not exceeding one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) for any subsequent violation, and not exceeding ten million dollars ($10,000,000) in the aggregate for related violations.

1.4.sec=Injunctive or declaratory relief.

1.5.0.sec=

1.5.1.sec=Monetary damages.

1.5.2.sec=Punitive damages pursuant to subdivision (a) of Section 3294 of the Civil Code.

1.5.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s2]

1.6.sec=Attorney’s fees and costs.

1.7.sec=Any other relief that the court deems appropriate.

1.=[G/Z/ol/s7]

2.0.sec=In determining whether the developer exercised reasonable care as required in Section 22603, all of the following considerations are relevant but not conclusive:

2.1.sec=The quality of a developer’s safety and security protocol.

2.2.sec=The extent to which the developer faithfully implemented and followed its safety and security protocol.

2.3.sec=Whether, in quality and implementation, the developer’s safety and security protocol was inferior, comparable, or superior to those of developers of comparably powerful models.

2.4.sec=The quality and rigor of the developer’s investigation, documentation, evaluation, and management of risks of critical harm posed by its model.

2.=[G/Z/ol/s4]

3.0.sec=

3.1.sec=A provision within a contract or agreement that seeks to waive, preclude, or burden the enforcement of a liability arising from a violation of this chapter, or to shift that liability to any person or entity in exchange for their use or access of, or right to use or access, a developer’s products or services, including by means of a contract of adhesion, is void as a matter of public policy.

3.2.0.sec=A court shall disregard corporate formalities and impose joint and several liability on affiliated entities for purposes of effectuating the intent of this section to the maximum extent allowed by law if the court concludes that both of the following are true:

3.2.1.sec=The affiliated entities, in the development of the corporate structure among the affiliated entities, took steps to purposely and unreasonably limit or avoid liability.

3.2.2.sec=As the result of the steps described in subparagraph (A), the corporate structure of the developer or affiliated entities would frustrate recovery of penalties, damages, or injunctive relief under this section.

3.2.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s2]

3.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

4.sec=Penalties collected pursuant to this section by the Attorney General shall be deposited into the Public Rights Law Enforcement Special Fund established pursuant to Section 12530 of the Government Code.

5.sec=This section does not limit the application of other laws.

=[G/Z/ol-a/s5]
