Note=This file generates all the MSPA documents for a deal.  It lists the defined terms, the Term Sheet, then the document models, then puts them together into the SPA with its attachments.   To speed the presentation, at the bottom, we link to a fixed copy of the rendering.  This also is a way to lock-down a version.

Note=We get our Defined Terms:

_=[GH/CommonAccord/Agt-MSPA-SPA/Sec/Def/_/0.md]

Note=We get our facts:

=[F/US/00/Agt/Acquire/Shares/MSPA/Demo/0-Termsheet.md]

Note=We are our text resources:

LetterOfIntent.=[F/US/00/Agt/Acquire/Shares/MSPA/Annex/Letter_of_Intent/0.md]

SPA.=[GH/CommonAccord/Agt-MSPA-SPA/Sec/0.md]

PromissoryNote.=[F/US/00/Agt/Acquire/Shares/MSPA/Annex/Note/0.md]

ReleaseAgt.=[F/US/00/Agt/Acquire/Shares/MSPA/Annex/Release/0.md]

EscrowAgt.=[F/US/00/Agt/Acquire/Shares/MSPA/Annex/Escrow/0.md]

AttyOpinionBuyer.=[F/US/00/Agt/Acquire/Shares/MSPA/Annex/Atty_Opinion_Buyer/0.md]

AttyOpinionSeller.=[F/US/00/Agt/Acquire/Shares/MSPA/Annex/Atty_Opinion_Seller/0.md]

DL.=[F/US/00/Agt/Acquire/Shares/MSPA/Annex/Disclosure_Letter/0.md]

NDA.=[F/US/00/Agt/Acquire/Shares/MSPA/Annex/NDA/0.md]

TransitionAgt.=[F/US/00/Agt/Acquire/Shares/MSPA/Annex/Transition_Services/0.md]

Note=Here are a few defaults to provide signature lines (until the documents are electronically signed).

Doc.GUID=1qAZ2wSX

xSignature=_______________________

Sign.YMD=____________________

PageBreak=</i>
 
Note=Here we put together the text, the SPA with Annexes.  All of the above except the Letter of Intent. For speed, the Model.Root (the starting point for all rendering) reference a pre-rendered version (the second line below).  The third line below is the outline of the original document, as rendered.

Model.Root={SPA.Version1.Doc}

SPA.Version1.=[F/US/00/Agt/Acquire/Shares/MSPA/Demo/X-Version/2016-10-02.html]

SPA.WithAnnexes.Doc={SPA.Doc}<ol><li><b>Schedule 2.2</b><br>{SellerShareholdings.Model.Root}<hr><li><b>Exhibit 2.2(b)</b><br>{PromissoryNote.Model.Root}<hr><li><b>Exhibit 2.4(a)(v)</b><br>{ReleaseAgt.Model.Root}<hr><li><b>Exhibit 2.4(a)(vii)</b><br>{EscrowAgt.Model.Root}<hr><li><b>Exhibit 8.5(a)</b><br>{AttyOpinionBuyer.Model.Root}<hr><li><b>Exhibit 8.6(a)</b><br>{AttyOpinionSeller.Model.Root}<hr><li><b>Exhibit 8.6(b)</b><br>{EstoppelCertificates.Model.Root}<hr><li><b>Exhibit 8.6(c)</b><br>{Agreements.Model.Root}<hr><li><b>Exhibit 9.4</b><br>{Consents.Model.Root}<hr><li><b>Additional - Disclosure Letter</b><br>{DL.Model.Root}<hr><li><b>Additional - Confidentiality Agreement</b><br>{NDA.Model.Root}<hr><li><b>Additional - Transition Services Agreement</b><br>{TransitionAgt.Model.Root}</ol>