1.Ti=PRIVACY-1. DATA MINIMIZATION

1.sec=Entities MUST limit the collection, use, transmission and storage of personal information to the minimum necessary to fulfill that transaction’s purpose and related legal requirements. Entities providing claims or attributes MUST NOT provide any more personal information than what is requested. Where feasible, IDENTITY-PROVIDERS MUST provide technical mechanisms to accommodate information requests of variable granularity, to support data minimization.

2.Ti=PRIVACY-2. PURPOSE LIMITATION

2.sec=Entities MUST limit the use of personal information that is collected, used, transmitted, or stored to the specified purposes of that transaction. Persistent records of contracts, assurances, consent, or legal authority MUST be established by entities collecting, generating, using, transmitting, or storing personal information, so that the information, consistently is used in the same manner originally specified and permitted.

3.Ti=PRIVACY-3. ATTRIBUTE MINIMIZATION

3.sec=Entities requesting attributes MUST evaluate the need to collect specific attributes in a transaction, as opposed to claims regarding those attributes. Wherever feasible, entities MUST collect, generate, use, transmit, and store claims about USERS rather than attributes. Wherever feasible, attributes MUST be transmitted as claims, and transmitted credentials and identities MUST be bound to claims instead of actual attribute values.

4.Ti=PRIVACY-4. CREDENTIAL LIMITATION

4.sec=Entities MUST NOT request USERS’ credentials unless necessary for the transaction and then only as appropriate to the risk associated with the transaction or to the risks to the parties associated with the transaction.

5.Ti=PRIVACY-5. DATA AGGREGATION RISK

5.sec=Entities MUST assess the privacy risk of aggregating personal information, in systems and processes where it is collected, generated, used, transmitted, or stored, and wherever feasible, MUST design and operate their systems and processes to minimize that risk. Entities MUST assess and limit linkages of personal information across multiple transactions without the USER's explicit consent.

6.Ti=PRIVACY-6. USAGE NOTICE

6.sec=Entities MUST provide concise, meaningful, and timely communication to USERS describing how they collect, generate, use, transmit, and store personal information.

7.Ti=PRIVACY-7. USER DATA CONTROL

7.sec=Entities MUST provide appropriate mechanisms to enable USERS to access, correct, and delete personal information.

8.Ti=PRIVACY-8. THIRD-PARTY LIMITATIONS

8.sec=Wherever USERS make choices regarding the treatment of their personal information, those choices MUST be communicated effectively by that entity to any THIRD-PARTIES to which it transmits the personal information.

9.Ti=PRIVACY-9. USER NOTICE OF CHANGES

9.sec=Entities MUST, upon any material changes to a service or process that affects the prior or ongoing collection, generation, use, transmission, or storage of USERS’ personal information, notify those USERS, and provide them with compensating controls designed to mitigate privacy risks that may arise from those changes, which may include seeking express affirmative consent of USERS in accordance with relevant law or regulation.

10.Ti=PRIVACY-10. USER OPTION TO DECLINE

10.sec=USERS MUST have the opportunity to decline registration; decline credential provisioning; decline the presentation of their credentials; and decline release of their attributes or claims.

11.Ti=PRIVACY-11. OPTIONAL INFORMATION

11.sec=Entities MUST clearly indicate to USERS what personal information is mandatory and what information is optional prior to the transaction.

12.Ti=PRIVACY-12. ANONYMITY

12.sec=Wherever feasible, entities MUST utilize identity systems and processes that enable transactions that are anonymous, anonymous with validated attributes, pseudonymous, or where appropriate, uniquely identified. Where applicable to such transactions, entities employing service providers or intermediaries MUST mitigate the risk of those THIRD-PARTIES collecting USER personal information. Organizations MUST request individuals’ credentials only when necessary for the transaction and then only as appropriate to the risk associated with the transaction or only as appropriate to the risks to the parties associated with the transaction.

13.Ti=PRIVACY-13. CONTROLS PROPORTIONATE TO RISK

13.sec=Controls on the processing or use of USERS' personal information MUST be commensurate with the degree of risk of that processing or use. A privacy risk analysis MUST be conducted by entities who conduct digital identity management functions, to establish what risks those functions pose to USERS' privacy.

14.Ti=PRIVACY-14. DATA RETENTION AND DISPOSAL

14.sec=Entities MUST limit the retention of personal information to the time necessary for providing and administering the functions and services to USERS for which the information was collected, except as otherwise required by law or regulation. When no longer needed, personal information MUST be securely disposed of in a manner aligning with appropriate industry standards and/or legal requirements.

15.Ti=PRIVACY-15. ATTRIBUTE SEGREGATION

15.sec=Wherever feasible, identifier data MUST be segregated from attribute data.

=[G/Z/ol-none/15]