Ti=CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION

[FootNote A4]=This can be easily transformed into a one-way confidentiality/NDA clause.

1.Ti=Confidential Information Defined

1.sec=“Confidential Information” refers to the following one party to this Agreement (“Discloser”) discloses to the other (“Recipient”): (a) any document Discloser marks “Confidential”; (b) any information Discloser orally designates as “Confidential” at the time of disclosure, provided Discloser confirms such designation in writing within {ConfInfo.ConfirmInWriting.Period}; (c) any source code disclosed by Vendor and any names of actual or potential customers disclosed by Customer, whether or not marked as confidential; and (d) any other nonpublic, sensitive information Recipient should reasonably consider a trade secret or otherwise confidential. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Confidential Information does not include information that: (i) is in Recipient’s possession at the time of disclosure; (ii) is independently developed by Recipient without use of or reference to Confidential Information; (iii) becomes known publicly, before or after disclosure, other than as a result of Recipient’s improper action or inaction; or (iv) is approved for release in writing by Discloser. Recipient is on notice that Confidential Information may include Discloser’s valuable trade secrets.

2.Ti=Nondisclosure

2.sec=Recipient shall not use Confidential Information for any purpose other than to facilitate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (the “Purpose”). Recipient: (a) shall not disclose Confidential Information to any employee or contractor of Recipient unless such person needs access in order to facilitate the Purpose and executes a nondisclosure agreement with Recipient with terms no less restrictive than those of this Article {ConfInfo.Xnum}; and (b) shall not disclose Confidential Information to any other third party without Discloser’s prior written consent. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Recipient shall protect Confidential Information with the same degree of care it uses to protect its own confidential information of similar nature and importance, but with no less than reasonable care. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Recipient may disclose Confidential Information as required by applicable law or by proper legal or governmental authority. Recipient shall give Discloser prompt notice of any such legal or governmental demand and reasonably cooperate with Discloser in any effort to seek a protective order or otherwise to contest such required disclosure, at Discloser’s expense. Recipient shall promptly notify Discloser of any misuse or misappropriation of Confidential Information that comes to Recipient’s attention.

3.Ti=Injunction

3.sec=Recipient agrees that breach of this Article {ConfInfo.Xnum} would cause Discloser irreparable injury, for which monetary damages would not provide adequate compensation, and that in addition to any other remedy, Discloser shall be entitled to injunctive relief against such breach or threatened breach, without proving actual damage or posting a bond or other security.

4.Ti=Termination & Return

4.sec=With respect to each item of Confidential Information, the obligations of Section {ConfInfo.Xnum}.2 above (Nondisclosure) will terminate {ConfInfo.Life.Period} after the date of disclosure; provided that such obligations related to Confidential Information constituting Discloser’s trade secrets will continue so long as such information remains subject to trade secret protection pursuant to applicable law. Upon termination of this Agreement, Recipient shall return all copies of Confidential Information to Discloser or certify, in writing, the destruction thereof.

5.Ti=Retention of Rights

5.sec=This Agreement does not transfer ownership of Confidential Information or grant a license thereto. Discloser will retain all right, title, and interest in and to all Confidential Information.

6.Ti=Exception & Immunity

6.0.sec=Pursuant to the Defend Trade Secrets Act of 2016, 18 USC Section 1833(b), Recipient is on notice and acknowledges that, notwithstanding the foregoing or any other provision of this Agreement:

[FootNote A5]=This is new language, addressing the requirements of the Defend Trade Secrets Act of 2016.

6.1.Ti=Immunity

6.1.sec=An individual shall not be held criminally or civilly liable under any Federal or State trade secret law for the disclosure of a trade secret that- (A) is made- (i) in confidence to a Federal, State, or local government official, either directly or indirectly, or to an attorney; and (ii) solely for the purpose of reporting or investigating a suspected violation of law; or (B) is made in a complaint or other document filed in a lawsuit or other proceeding, if such filing is made under seal.

6.2.Ti=Use of Trade Secret Information in Anti-Retaliation Lawsuit

6.2.sec=An individual who files a lawsuit for retaliation by an employer for reporting a suspected violation of law may disclose the trade secret to the attorney of the individual and use the trade secret information in the court proceeding, if the individual- (A) files any document containing the trade secret under seal; and (B) does not disclose the trade secret, except pursuant to court order.

6.=[G/Z/ol-a/2]

=[G/Z/ol/6]

