Ti=Autonomy and Automation:

1.1.sec=The movement of "open source," "peer-to-peer", blockchain, CommonAccord ("P2P") is about to engulf transacting, that is, much of how we manage our broad sets of relationships. 

1.2.0.sec=P2P is arriving in the context of:

1.2.1.sec=the massive centralization and automation of production, marketing, transport and finance;

1.2.2.sec=the internet of things coming to life; and 

1.2.3.sec=artificial intelligence becoming at least as good as humans at most tasks required to run an automated system of production. 

1.2.=[Z/ol-i/s3]

1.=[Z/paras/s2]

2.1.sec=The conference will explore a low-tech approach to P2P which we think has substantial advantages, notably in security, safety and democratic legitimacy.  

2.2.0.sec=The foundations are:

2.2.1.sec=A peer-based, parsimonious approach to transacting and record-keeping;

2.2.2.sec=A flexible "object model" for legal relationships; and  

2.2.3.sec=Wikipedia-like sharing of forms, boilerplate and other text.

2.2.=[Z/ol-i/s3]

2.=[Z/paras/s2]

3.0.sec=This is based on:

3.1.sec=the CommonAccord data model as a universal format for transaction records;

3.2.sec=cryptographically-secured access to records among authorized peers; and 

3.3.sec=blockchain-based automation (smart contracts) and proof.  (Validation may be often be done by "trust-providers" such as trustees, banks and authorities rather than "trustless" validation, for confidentiality and information security reasons.  Trustless validation, however, is needed in some situations and will reduce opportunities for trust-providers to exploit their position.

3.=[Z/ol-i/s3]

4.sec=We expect the focus of the the conference to be on raising awareness among legal, business and government leaders of the impact of this codified, peer-based approach to law and transacting. 

=[Z/ol/s4]
....