
Ti=DEFINITIONS 

1.sec=Apache License – the Apache 2.0 License, a copy of which is attached hereto as Appendix A.

2.sec=Contribution – All items submitted to the GA4GH that are proposed for inclusion in a GA4GH Work Product, whether submitted in writing or electronically, in person or through an electronic conference, mailing list, or other forum or medium maintained or overseen by the GA4GH.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing Contributions include written text, illustrations, diagrams, software code, data, and media of all kinds. 

3.sec=Contributor – An individual submitting a Contribution to the GA4GH in their individual capacity or as a representative of an Organizational Member.

4.sec=Copyright Holder – the person or entity holding the right to grant the copyright licenses described in this Policy with respect to a particular Contribution.  By way of example, an individual Contributor’s employer, principal, sponsor or assignee who has acquired the copyright in or to a Contribution created by such Contributor, and any joint owners of copyright in such Contributions with such Contributor, shall be considered the Copyright Holder(s) with respect to such Contribution.

5.sec=Encumbrance – any lien, obligation, restriction or covenant, whether arising through contract, property, debt, judicial order or other legal mechanism, that could limit the scope or exercise of a license granted or purported to be granted hereunder.

6.sec=Excerpt – reproduction of portions of a text verbatim for purposes of illustration, inclusion in educational materials and the like. 

7.sec=GA4GH – the association currently known as the “Global Alliance for Genomic Health” and any successor entity or entities thereof.

8.sec=Host Institution – As defined in the Constitution of the GA4GH.

9.sec=Organizational Member – As defined in the Constitution of the GA4GH. 

10.sec=OSS Licenses – a license approved by the Open Software Initiative.

11.sec=Released Document – any standard, specification, ontology, documentation or other textual document other than Released Software that is made available by GA4GH for public use. 

12.sec=Released Software – any software program, module, application, macro, test suite, and other code that is made available by GA4GH for public use, including all associated documentation, release notes and data.

13.sec=Translate – express a text from one human language into another without alteration of the meaning or intent of the original text. This definition does not encompass the porting of software from one programming language to another.

14.sec=User – any person or entity that uses or desires to use any Released Document or Released Software on the terms set forth herein.

15.sec=Work Product – All materials released by or developed  under the auspices of GA4GH including, without limitation, Released Documents and Released Software.

16.sec=Work Stream Leader – the person or persons designated as the leader(s) of a particular GA4GH activity, such as leading the development of a Work Product, pursuant to the Constitution of the GA4GH.

=[G/Z/ol/s16]
