
Ti=Application of the principles 

1.Ti=Article 18 – Decision-making and addressing bioethical issues 

1.1.sec=Professionalism, honesty, integrity and transparency in decision-making should be promoted, in particular declarations of all conflicts of interest and appropriate sharing of knowledge. Every endeavour should be made to use the best available scientific knowledge and methodology in addressing and periodically reviewing bioethical issues. 

1.2.sec=Persons and professionals concerned and society as a whole should be engaged in dialogue on a regular basis. 

1.3.sec=Opportunities for informed pluralistic public debate, seeking the expression of all relevant opinions, should be promoted. 

1.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

2.Ti=Article 19 – Ethics committees 

2.0.sec=Independent, multidisciplinary and pluralist ethics committees should be established, promoted and supported at the appropriate level in order to: 

2.1.sec=assess the relevant ethical, legal, scientific and social issues related to research projects involving human beings; 

2.2.sec=provide advice on ethical problems in clinical settings; 

2.3.sec=assess scientific and technological developments, formulate recommendations and contribute to the preparation of guidelines on issues within the scope of this Declaration; 

2.4.sec=foster debate, education and public awareness of, and engagement in, bioethics. 

2.=[G/Z/ol-a/s4]

3.Ti=Article 20 – Risk assessment and management 

3.sec=Appropriate assessment and adequate management of risk related to medicine, life sciences and associated technologies should be promoted. 

4.Ti=Article 21 – Transnational practices 

4.1.sec=States, public and private institutions, and professionals associated with transnational activities should endeavour to ensure that any activity within the scope of this Declaration, undertaken, funded or otherwise pursued in whole or in part in different States, is consistent with the principles set out in this Declaration. 

4.2.sec=When research is undertaken or otherwise pursued in one or more States (the host State(s)) and funded by a source in another State, such research should be the object of an appropriate level of ethical review in the host Stateand the State in which the funder is located. This review should be based on ethical and legal standards that are consistent with the principles set out in this Declaration. 

4.3.sec=Transnational health research should be responsive to the needs of host countries, and the importance of research contributing to the alleviation of urgent global health problems should be recognized. 

4.4.sec=When negotiating a research agreement, terms for collaboration and agreement on the benefits of research should be established with equal participation by those party to the negotiation. 

4.5.sec=States should take appropriate measures, both at the national and international levels, to combat bioterrorism and illicit traffic in organs, tissues, samples, genetic resources and genetic-related materials. 

4.=[G/Z/ol/s5]

=[G/Z/ol-none/4]