Ti=The Association’s Executive Team

1.Ti=Role

1.1.0.sec=The executive team of the association is responsible for the day-to-day operations of the Libra network, including:

1.1.1.sec=Facilitating the development of the Libra network.

1.1.2.sec=Operationalizing the Libra Reserve.

1.1.3.sec=Raising of funds from the Founding Members (as well as other investors) through the sale of Libra Investment Tokens to accredited investors in a private placement.

1.1.4.sec=Distributing funds back to Founding Members (in the form of incentives, rewarding members for producing growth in usage of the Libra network) and to all investors (in the form of dividends) in strict accordance with the terms and policies set in advance by the association.

1.1.=[G/Z/ol/s4]

1.2.sec=The executive team is led and recruited by a Managing Director (MD).

1.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

2.Ti=Managing Director

2.0.sec=The MD is elected by the council every three years or as soon as the person fulfilling such role leaves or is removed from her position.

2.1.sec=The MD will be a full-time employee of the association and a member of the Libra Association Board.

2.2.sec=Any member of the council can propose a candidate for the MD role.

2.3.sec=The MD can be reelected indefinitely.

2.4.sec=Elections for MD will be held in the council's first meeting, i.e., as soon as there are at least five entities signed up to become Founding Members and, hence, entitled to be represented in the council (see above).

2.=[G/Z/ol/s4]

3.Ti=Managing Director Responsibilities

3.0.sec=The responsibilities of the MD and her executive team stem from the powers of the council and will be delegated by the council. A preliminary list includes:

3.1.0.sec=Libra network management:

3.1.1.sec=Define the process for managing the Libra protocol specification source control repository, including the process for reviewing and accepting changes to the protocol.

3.1.2.sec=Define the process for managing the Libra Core implementation of the Libra protocol, including the process for reviewing and accepting changes to the implementation.

3.1.3.sec=Release and distribute the Libra Core software, and support nodes as needed in the installation and maintenance of the Libra Core software.

3.1.4.sec=Coordinate security reviews, and put products through rigorous security testing.
Engage with development teams to foster and solicit contributions to the Libra protocol and Libra Core, and fund them if necessary.

3.1.5.sec=Propose/recommend to nodes to upgrade the software they run, and coordinate the scheduling of those upgrades.

3.1.6.sec=Explore permissionless blockchain technologies, and recommend to the board and council paths for transition to such technology.

3.1.7.sec=Ascertain if potential members meet the Founding Member eligibility criteria, propose to the council removal of Founding Members that don't meet these criteria, and propose to the council changes in these criteria.

3.1.=[G/Z/ol/s7]

3.2.0.sec=Libra Reserve management:

3.2.1.0.sec=Execute the Reserve Management Policy, including:

3.2.1.1.sec=Oversee the process of minting and burning Libra.

3.2.1.2.sec=Ascertain that the value of assets in the reserve meets the policy criteria.

3.2.1.3.sec=Invest reserve assets in low-risk assets while maintaining high liquidity, per policy.

3.2.1.4.sec=Allow third-party liquidity providers to exchange Libra for assets in the reserve, per policy.

3.2.1.5.sec=Allocate funds generated from interest on the reserve to fund the association activities, if needed and per an approved budget, and allocate all other such funds for distribution to nodes and investors per Libra Investment Token terms, Incentives Distribution Policy, and council decisions.

3.2.1.=[G/Z/ol/s5]

3.2.2.sec=Monitor the economic trajectory of the Libra ecosystem and of Libra as a currency on a continuous basis, and provide reporting to the board and council.

3.2.3.sec=Propose to the council changes in the Reserve Management Policy in extreme situations, such that a change may be necessary.

3.2.4.0.sec=Fundraising and recruiting of Founding Members:

3.2.4.1.sec=Reach out and solicit eligible parties to join the Libra network as investors and/or Founding Members.

3.2.4.2.sec=Manage the sale of Libra Investment Tokens to accredited investors and Founding Members, subject to the Libra Investment Token terms and policy.

3.2.4.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

3.2.5.0.sec=Incentive and dividends management:

3.2.5.1.sec=Engage with the association's reserve to use the raised capital to purchase Libra.

3.2.5.2.sec=Oversee the distribution of incentives in the form of Libra to qualifying Founding Members per the Incentives Distribution Policy, and audit Founding Members records as needed.

3.2.5.3.sec=If and when sufficient income has accumulated in the reserve, oversee distribution of dividends to all investors per the Libra Investment Token terms.

3.2.5.4.sec=Allocate funds to support the association's activities, per approved budget.

3.2.5.5.sec=Provide monthly reports to the board regarding the accumulation of investment and the distribution of dividends and incentives.

3.2.5.6.sec=Propose to the board and council changes in the Incentives Distribution Policy.

3.2.5.=[G/Z/ol/s6]

3.2.6.0.sec=Budget and Administration:

3.2.6.1.sec=Set and maintain a process and technology for council members to meet.

3.2.6.2.sec=Propose an association budget, associated roadmap, and hiring plan to the board and the council.

3.2.6.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

3.2.=[G/Z/ol/s6]

3.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

4.Ti=Executive Team

4.1.0.sec=The MD will be responsible for recruiting a team to fulfill the association's roles, which will likely include:

4.1.1.sec=Deputy MD/COO, serving as the MD's replacement in absence; HR and administrative team

4.1.2.sec=Chief Financial Officer — treasury and currency-exchange team, investor relations team

4.1.3.sec=Head of Product — software and Libra network management team; developer community management team

4.1.4.sec=Head of Business Development — BD team, Founding Members relations team

4.1.5.sec=Head Economist — economics team

4.1.6.sec=Head of Policy — advocacy and communications teams

4.1.7.sec=Head of Compliance and Financial Intelligence

4.1.8.sec=General Counsel — legal team

4.1.=[G/Z/ol/s8]

4.2.sec=The association's members will do their best to allocate resources to support the association's executive team in the execution of their responsibilities, to keep the executive team as lean as possible.

4.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

=[G/Z/ol-AA/4]
