
Ti=If your stuff gets damaged or stolen

1.Ti=We cover stuff that you own, that’s normally kept at your home, and that was damaged by a fire, a burst pipe, theft or vandalism.

1.sec=We don’t cover cash, assault weapons, stuff that’s primarily used for your business, or things that you willingly handed over to someone else to look after.

2.Ti=What’s not covered

2.1.sec=This policy covers your stuff, up to a limit of $10,000 per year, for damages caused by fire or smoke, theft or vandalism, burst pipes or appliance leaks. Everything else, such as “I lost it,” “my dog ate it,” “my kid dropped it,” “my power went out,” “my computer died,” “my roof is leaking,” “I overfilled my bathtub,” or “I had a wardrobe malfunction,” aren’t covered. You can add coverage for some of these <a href="In the real doc, this will open our Live Policy editor">here</a>.

2.2.sec=Items worth up to $2,500 are covered automatically, but we won’t pay more per item unless they’ve been <a href="In the real doc, this will open our Live Policy editor">added individually</a>. So please let us know if you have jewelry, cameras, or other valuables worth more than $2,500 each, so we can cover them fully.

2.3.sec=We cover your physical stuff, but things like your health, reputation, identity, data, lost wages, privacy, credit rating, and financial instruments (including cash, cryptocurrency, and stocks) are not covered.

2.4.sec=We cover your stuff anywhere in the world, as long as it is normally kept at your home. Stuff that lives at your summer house, office, or in a storage unit, is not covered. You can add coverage for some of these <a href="In the real doc, this will open our Live Policy editor">here</a>.

2.5.sec=We cover stuff you own and have in your possession. If you willingly handed your things to someone else, they’re responsible. So if your stuff was damaged during shipping, at the dry cleaners, while on loan to a friend, or never came off your flight to Hawaii - it’s not covered.

2.6.sec=We don’t cover stuff that’s usually covered by other types of insurance policies such as auto, travel, pet, or business. So damage to your car, injuries to your pet, or damage to stuff used for business such as your work laptop, professional camera gear, and so on, aren’t covered. You can add coverage for some of these <a href="In the real doc, this will open our Live Policy editor">here</a>.

2.7.sec=Assault weapons (as defined by the Federal Assault Weapons Ban of 1994) are not covered. Other licensed firearms are covered, as long as they are <a href="https://oag.ca.gov/firearms/tips">added individually</a>.

2.8.sec=We do not cover intentional damage by you, nor losses that could have been foreseen or prevented by you through reasonable steps. So if damage like this has happened before and you haven’t fixed the problem fully, that’s on you.

2.9.sec=We don't cover damage caused by illegal activity by someone listed on this policy, nor property that is illegal for you to own.

2.=[G/Z/ol/s9]

=[G/Z/ol/2]
