Note=Article 7.1 Annotation: Data providers and data recipients will need to manage disputes that can arise in undertaking data sharing activities. Disputes can be resolved in many ways, and the Model Agreement does not contain an exhaustive range of dispute settlement options. Whatever dispute resolution process is used, the parties should agree on how they will handle disputes that might emerge in cooperating on data sharing. Note that the choice to make a data sharing agreement legally binding (see Article 3.2 above) will affect how disputes under such binding agreements can be resolved.

Ti=Resolution of Disputes

1.Note=Article 7.1(a) Annotation: Dispute settlement mechanisms typically start with consultations between the parties to an Agreement. The notification requirement ensures transparency about the nature of the perceived dispute and provides a formal starting point for resolving a dispute under the agreement. The parties can determine how much time they want to elapse between formal notification and the start of consultations.

1.sec=When a {_Party} considers a dispute concerning the interpretation or implementation of the {_Agreement} has arisen, it shall notify the other {_Party} in writing and describe why it considers a dispute exists. Within {Dispute.BeginConsultationWithin.Days} calendar days after the date of the notification, the {_Parties} shall begin consultations in a good faith effort to resolve the dispute according to the text of the {_Agreement} and any other applicable legal rule or instrument. Any resolution achieved shall be in writing and approved by both {_Parties}. 

2.Note=Article 7.1.(b) Annotation: Disputes can often be resolved in consultations, but the parties need to plan for the next steps should consultations not produce a mutually satisfactory outcome. The Model Agreement has mediation as the next stage in dispute settlement if consultations do not resolve the matter. Under mediation, a neutral third party considers the parties’ positions, works with them to reach a compromise, and, if necessary, recommends ways to resolve the dispute.

2.sec=If consultations fail to produce a mutually satisfactory resolution within {Dispute.FinishConsultationWithin.Days} calendar days after the date of the notification of a dispute, the {_Parties} shall seek mediation of the dispute in a mutually agreed manner.

3.Note=Article 7.1(c) Annotation: The parties should also agree what happens should consultations and mediation fail to resolve their dispute. For data sharing agreements the parties have designated as legally binding, dispute settlement could proceed under the law governing the agreement in, for example, a lawsuit claiming breach of contract. A party to a legally binding data sharing agreement can also decide to terminate the agreement. For data sharing agreements that are not legally binding, the Model Agreement provides each party with the option of terminating their agreement should consultations and mediation fail to resolve a dispute.

3.0.sec=If the {_Parties} fail to agree on mediation, or mediation fails to produce a mutually satisfactory outcome within {Dispute.FinishMediationWithin.Days} calendar days after the date of the notification of a dispute, a {_Party}:

3.1.sec=May pursue any claims for breach of contract in dispute resolution mechanisms, including arbitration if mutually agreed between the {_Parties} or courts of law, available under the law governing the contract concerning any {_Activity} for which the {_Agreement} is a legally binding contract; or

3.2.sec=May terminate the {_Agreement} in accordance with Article 7.8.

3.=[G/Z/ol-i/s2]

=[G/Z/ol-a/s3]
