Guide to Annex A

Ti=Initiating Public Health Surveillance Data Sharing Form

1.Ti=Purpose and objectives of sharing public health surveillance data

1.0.sec=Clearly explain the purpose and objectives of the data sharing activity, including intended public health benefit.

1.1.sec={Activity-Purpose.sec}

1.00.sec=The purpose refers to the strategic aim of data sharing, such as reducing the risk of cross-border disease outbreaks. The objectives are specific goals that shape achieving the strategic purpose, such as generating a weekly epidemiological summary derived from shared data. Identifying the purpose and objectives for data sharing defines the expectations of each Party, helps build trust, and clarifies what activities fall outside the agreement and require further discussion.

1.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s1]

2.Ti=Intended use of the data

2.0.sec=Specify how the shared data will be used, including additional outputs such as publications, and any intended sharing with third parties.

2.1.sec={Activity-Use.sec}

2.00.sec=The Parties should describe how they will, collectively and individually, use shared data. Such descriptions should identify the purposes of each use, such as public health actions resulting from data analysis, producing reports, and pursuing academic publications. Any intellectual property (IP) implications should be identified (see Annex C). The Parties should also describe how they will handle proposed uses of shared data not identified in Annex A. For example, data providers may choose to allow secondary data analysis when sharing their data, or may decide that each planned analysis from the data recipient requires discussion and approval.

2.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s1]

3.Ti=Nature of data to be processed

3.0.sec=Describe the nature of data that are to be shared, along with the justification for processing.

3.1.sec={Activity-TypeOfData.sec}

3.00.sec=Public health surveillance data can include a variety of data, including aggregated data, individual-level data, and data containing personally identifiable information (PII). Surveillance data can be organized in various ways, including according to time (the period the data cover), place (the geographical locations to which the data refer) and person (the populations to which the data relate). For each type of shared data, the Parties should provide the justification for processing the data and any special protections applicable to the sharing and processing of data. For example, PII is typically securely shared on a ‘need-to-know’ basis, and only the minimum amount of PII is collected and processed when necessary to achieve a legitimate purpose. 

3.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s1]

4.Sec={Legal.Sec}

Legal.Ti=Legal status of the data sharing agreement

Legal.0.sec=Indicate whether the data sharing agreement will be legally binding, or non-binding, and why.

Legal.1.sec={Activity-Binding.sec}

Activity-Binding.Alt1.sec={Activity-Binding.Yes}

Activity-Binding.Yes=Binding {BindingBecause.sec}

Activity-Binding.Alt2.sec={Activity-Binding.No}

Activity-Binding.No=Non-Binding {Non-BindingBecause.sec}

Activity-Binding.=[G/Z/Alt/2]

Activity-Binding.SecName={SecName}.Activity-Binding

Legal.00.sec=The Parties can make their data sharing agreement legally binding or non-binding. Many factors inform this decision, including each Party’s preferences, the nature of the data sharing, and the location(s) of data collection and sharing. When the Parties want their agreement to be legally binding, they should identify in Annex A what national law will govern the agreement.

Legal.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s1]

5.Ti=Relevant legal frameworks for sharing data

5.0.sec=Identify and describe any known relevant legal frameworks applicable to either or both Parties that will enable the sharing of data. 

5.1.sec={Activity-LegalFramework.sec}

5.00.sec=National and international laws applicable to the Parties might affect their data sharing agreement, including agreements the Parties decide are not legally binding. For example, national laws might regulate certain kinds of data sharing or impose specific requirements on sharing or processing particular kinds of data, such as PII. In addition to the law, Parties may be bound to other agreements such as data licences or existing data sharing agreements.  To ensure transparency and compliance, the Parties should include in Annex A the national laws and other relevant agreements that apply to their data sharing agreement. Legal frameworks may still apply if they are not described here. 

5.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s1]

6.Ti=Retention period for the data to be shared

6.0.sec=Insert the specific retention period for shared data, including the reasons for the retention period. Specify arrangements if the agreement is terminated or if the data recipient needs to retain the data for longer.

6.1.sec={Activity-RetentionPeriod.sec}

6.00.sec=The Parties should identify for how long they will retain shared data and justify the length of the data retention period(s). National laws affecting, and privacy best practices used by, health-related activities might apply to shared data, especially PII. The Parties should also set forth the procedures for retaining data longer than initially agreed and what happens to retained data if they terminate their agreement early. 

6.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s1]

7.Ti=Data controller(s)

7.0.sec=Name the data controller(s) in each Party involved in the data sharing agreement.

7.1.sec={Activity-DataController.sec}

7.00.sec=Each Party should identify an individual who will be responsible for managing data shared under the agreement. Full contact information should be provided in Annex A for each Party’s data controller. Controllers from each Party should be able to contact each other in case the Agreement requires revision, extension or termination.

7.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s1]

8.	Responsibility for authorizing public health surveillance data sharing

8.0.sec=Identify for each Party the individual(s) with the authority to initiate data sharing.

8.1.sec={Activity-AuthorizedIndividuals.sec}

8.00.sec=Each Party should identify the individual(s) who have the legal or organizational authority to initiate the data sharing planned under the agreement. These individuals might be different from the persons who have authority to sign the agreement on behalf of the Parties or to undertake specific activities under the agreement.

8.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s1]

=[G/Z/ol/7]
