Ti=Services – Other Services

1.sec={P1.Handle} provides consulting, installation, customization and configuration, maintenance, and other services as detailed in an {_Attachment_or_TD}. {P2.Handle} will own the copyright in works of authorship that {P1.Handle} develops for {P2.Handle} under a Statement of Work ({_SOW}) ({_Project_Materials}).

2.sec={_Project_Materials} exclude works of authorship delivered to {P2.Handle}, but not created, under the {_SOW}, and any modifications or enhancements of such works made under the {_SOW} (Existing Works). Some Existing Works are subject to a separate license agreement (Existing Licensed Works).

3.sec=A {_Program} is an example of an Existing Licensed Work and is subject to the {_Program} terms. {P1.Handle} grants {P2.Handle} an irrevocable (subject to {P2.Handle}’s payment obligations), nonexclusive, worldwide license to use, execute, reproduce, display, perform and prepare derivatives of Existing Works that are not Existing Licensed Works.

4.sec={P1.Handle} retains an irrevocable, nonexclusive, worldwide, paid-up license to use, execute, reproduce, display, perform, sublicense, distribute, and prepare derivative works of {_Project_Materials}.

5.sec=Either {_party} may terminate a Service if a material breach concerning the Service is not remedied within a reasonable time. {P1.Handle} will provide at least 90 days’ notice prior to withdrawal of Service. {P2.Handle} will pay charges for Services provided through the effective date of termination.

6.sec=If {P2.Handle} terminates without cause or {P1.Handle} terminates for breach, {P2.Handle} will meet all minimum commitments and pay termination or adjustment charges specified in the {_SOW} or {_TD} and any additional costs {P1.Handle} reasonably incurs because of early termination, such as costs relating to subcontracts or relocation. {P1.Handle} will take reasonable steps to mitigate any such additional costs.

=[G/Z/para/s6]
