
Ti=Due Notice and Right to Be Heard

1.sec=At the commencement of a proceeding, notice, provided by means that are reasonably likely to be effective, should be directed to parties other than the plaintiff. The notice should be accompanied by a copy of the complaint or otherwise include the allegations of the complaint and specification of the relief sought by plaintiff. A party against whom relief is sought should be informed of the procedure for response and the possibility of default judgment for failure to make timely response.

2.sec=The documents referred to in Principle {Participate.Xnum}.1 must be in a language of the forum, and also a language of the state of an individual’s habitual residence or a jural entity’s principal place of business, or the language of the principal documents in the transaction. Defendant and other parties should give notice of their defenses and other contentions and requests for relief in a language of the proceeding, as provided in Principle {Language.Xnum}.

3.sec=After commencement of the proceeding, all parties should be provided prompt notice of motions and applications of other parties and determinations by the court.

4.sec=The parties have the right to submit relevant contentions of fact and law and to offer supporting evidence.

5.sec=A party should have a fair opportunity and reasonably adequate time to respond to contentions of fact and law and to evidence presented by another party, and to orders and suggestions made by the court.

6.sec=The court should consider all contentions of the parties and address those concerning substantial issues.

7.sec=The parties may, by agreement and with approval of the court, employ expedited means of communications, such as telecommunication.

8.sec=An order affecting a party’s interests may be made and enforced without giving previous notice to that party only upon proof of urgent necessity and preponderance of considerations of fairness. An ex parte order should be proportionate to the interests that the applicant seeks to protect. As soon as practicable, the affected party should be given notice of the order and of the matters relied upon to support it, and should have the right to apply for a prompt and full reconsideration by the court.

=[G/Z/ol/s8]

Comment:

P-5A The specific procedure for giving notice varies somewhat among legal systems. For example, in some systems the court is responsible for giving the parties notice, including copies of the pleadings, while in other systems that responsibility is imposed on the parties. The forum’s technical requirements of notice should be administered in contemplation of the objective of affording actual notice.

P-5B The possibility of a default judgment is especially important in international litigation.

P-5C The right of a party to be informed of another party’s contentions is consistent with the responsibility of the court stated in Principle 22.

P-5D According to Principle 5.5, the parties should make known to each other at an early stage the elements of fact upon which their claims or defenses are based and the rules of law that will be invoked, so that each party has timely opportunity to organize its case. P-5E The standard stated in Principle 5.6 does not require the court to consider contentions determined at an earlier stage of the proceeding or that are unnecessary to the decision. See Principle 23, requiring that the written decision be accompanied by a reasoned explanation of its legal, evidentiary, and factual basis.

P-5F Forum law may provide for expedited means of communication without party approval or special court order.

P-5G Principle 5.8 recognizes the propriety of “ex parte” proceedings, such as a temporary injunction or an order for sequestration of property (provisional measures), particularly at the initial stage of litigation. Often such orders can be effective only if enforced without prior notice. An opposing party should be given prompt notice of such an order, opportunity to be heard immediately, and a right to full reconsideration of the factual and legal basis of such an order. An ex parte proceeding should be governed by Principle 8. See Principles 1.4 and 8.

