
Ti=Which of the following best describes your organization?

0.sec=Two or more organizations may collaborate on a single application. However, a single legal entity must assume responsibility and authority for the use and reporting of any grant funded project. That entity must be able to exercise (in fact and law direction) control and supervision over the project and use of grant funds. Select the best response for the Principal Organization that would have legal responsibility and authority over any grant provided by the MacArthur Foundation. Select one.

1.prompt=A 501(c)3, 509(a)(1) or (2), or equivalent nonprofit organization, including NGOs, foundations, and universities.

1.comment=We welcome applications from charitable organizations worldwide.

2.prompt=A for-profit organization, including limited liability corporations, benefit corporations, or hybrid organizations.

2.comment=We welcome applications from for-profit corporations but not single person LLCs. However, you must ensure that any grant funds will be used solely for charitable purposes and will not result in more than incidental private benefit to other people, organizations, or entities that may be a necessary byproduct of the accomplishment of the charitable purpose. To learn more, about our legal requirements, watch this webinar on Common Legal Challenges for applicants and read our Private Benefit Rule.

3.prompt=A government entity.

3.comment=Sorry, Government entities are not eligible for the 100&Change competition.

4.prompt=An individual.

4.comment=Sorry, individuals are not eligible for the 100&Change competition. This includes single-person LLCs.

1.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

2.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

3.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

4.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

=[G/Z/ol/s4]
