Ti=What will you ask me to do?

0.sec=If you decide to join All of Us, we will gather data about you. We will gather some of the data from you directly. We will gather some of the data from elsewhere.
    
1.Ti=Data that we will gather from you directly:

1.1.Ti=Basic data

1.1.1.sec=We will ask you for data like your name and date of birth.

1.1.2.sec=Once a year we will ask if you have moved, or changed your phone number or email address.

1.1.3.sec=We will ask for the phone number or email address for a friend or family member as a backup in case we need to reach you.

1.1.4.sec=We might use social media or public listings to help us keep your contact information up to date.

1.1.=[G/Z/para/s4]

1.2.Ti=Healthdata

1.2.1.sec=We will ask you questions about your health, family, home, and work.

1.2.2.sec=This will take about 30-60 minutes.

1.2.3.sec=From time to time, we will ask you follow-up questions about your health.

1.2.4.sec=We may ask the same question more than one time, so we can see if there are any changes.

1.2.5.sec=You do not have to answer any question you do not want to answer.

1.2.=[G/Z/para/s5]

1.3.Ti=Physical measurements

1.3.1.1.sec=We may ask you to go to a local clinic to be measured.

1.3.1.2.sec=If you are asked, you can decide yes or no.

1.3.1.3.sec=You can say no and still take part in All of Us.

1.3.1.=[G/Z/para/s3]

1.3.2.1.sec=If you say yes to being measured, it will take about 15 minutes.

1.3.2.2.sec=All of Us trained research staff will do the measurements.

1.3.2.3.sec=We will measure your height, weight, hips, and waist.

1.3.2.4.sec=We will check your blood pressure and heart rate.

1.3.2.5.sec=We may ask you to have other measurements over time.

1.3.2.=[G/Z/para/s5]

1.3.=[G/Z/paras/s2]

1.4.Ti=Samples

1.4.1.1.sec=We may ask you to go to a local clinic to give a blood sample.

1.4.1.2.sec=If you are asked, you can decide yes or no.

1.4.1.3.sec=You can say no and still take part in All of Us.

1.4.1.=[G/Z/para/s3]

1.4.2.1.sec=If you say yes to giving a sample, we will use a needle to draw about 3 tablespoons of blood from your arm.

1.4.2.2.sec=We may ask you to give a urine sample (“pee in a cup”).

1.4.2.3.sec=We may ask for other samples, like saliva (“spit”).

1.4.2.=[G/Z/para/s3]

1.4.3.1.sec=Researchers will study your samples.

1.4.3.2.sec=They may measure things that naturally occur within our bodies, for example, cholesterol.

1.4.3.3.sec=They may look for signs of outside factors that affect health.

1.4.3.4.sec=For example, environmental toxins, medications, or drugs.

1.4.3.=[G/Z/para/s4]

1.4.4.1.sec=Researchers may also want to study your DNA.

1.4.4.2.sec=DNA is in your blood and other samples.

1.4.4.3.sec=Genes are made of DNA.

1.4.4.4.sec=Our hair color, eye color, and risk for some diseases depend on our genes.

1.4.4.=[G/Z/para/s4]

1.4.5.1.sec=Genes are passed from parents to kids.

1.4.5.2.sec=Half of your genes came from your mom and half came from your dad.

1.4.5.3.sec=If you have kids, each of them will get half your genes.

1.4.5.4.sec=In this way, your genes also tell about your family.

1.4.5.=[G/Z/para/s4]

1.4.6.1.sec=Researchers will use many methods to study your samples.

1.4.6.2.sec=Because All of Us will last for ten or more years, some of the methods may not even be invented yet.

1.4.6.=[G/Z/para/s2]

1.4.7.1.sec=We will store your blood, urine, and saliva samples in the All of Us biobank.

1.4.7.2.sec=The biobank is a secure storage place for samples.

1.4.7.3.sec=We will store your samples at the biobank until they are used up by researchers for different studies.

1.4.7.4.sec=If your samples get used up, we may ask you to give more.

1.4.7.5.sec=You can say yes or no.

1.4.7.=[G/Z/para/s5]

1.4.8.sec=What researchers learn from studying your samples will be added to the All of Us databases.

1.4.=[G/Z/paras/s8]

1.5.Ti=Fitness trackers

1.5.1.sec=If you have a fitness tracker (like one to count the steps you take in a day), you might be able to share data from it with All of Us.

1.5.2.sec=If you don’t have a fitness tracker, we may ask you to use one that we give you.

1.5.3.sec=You can say no and still take part in All of Us.

1.5.=[G/Z/para/s3]

1.=[G/Z/paras/5]

2.Ti=Data that we will gather from elsewhere:

2.1.Ti=Electronic health records

2.1.1.1.sec=If you have electronic health records, we may ask for access.

2.1.1.2.sec=If you are asked, you can decide yes or no.

2.1.1.3.sec=You can say no and still take part in All of Us, but it might limit what other data we ask to collect from you.

2.1.1.4.sec=For example, if you say no, you might not be asked to give samples.

2.1.1.=[G/Z/para/s4]

2.1.2.1.sec=There will be a separate form called the HIPAA Authorization for you to sign if you decide to give us access.

2.1.2.2.sec=We will see data about your health problems, test results, medical procedures, images (such as X-rays), and medicines you take.

2.1.2.3.sec=Health records can contain sensitive data. For example, they may tell us about your mental health, genetic conditions, or use of alcohol or drugs.

2.1.2.4.sec=They may contain sexual or infection data, including HIV status.

2.1.2.=[G/Z/para/s4]

2.1.=[G/Z/paras/s2]

2.2.Ti=Data about your health from other sources

2.2.1.1.sec=We will add data from other sources to the data you give us.

2.2.1.2.sec=For example, environmental data and pharmacy records. This will give researchers more data about factors that might affect your health.

2.2.1.=[G/Z/para/s2]

2.2.2.0.sec=There are two ways we will add data from other sources to your All of Us record:

2.2.2.1.Ti=Based on where you live and work

2.2.2.1.1.sec=We will add data about your area based on where you live and work.

2.2.2.1.2.sec=For example, we may add data about the number of people in your area.

2.2.2.1.3.sec=We may add pollution data.

2.2.2.1.4.sec=We may add data like how close you live to the nearest grocery store or park.

2.2.2.1.=[G/Z/para/s4]

2.2.2.2.Ti=Based on data that identifies you

2.2.2.2.1.1.sec=We will use data that identifies you like your name and date of birth to add data that is specific to you.

2.2.2.2.1.2.sec=For example, we may add data from pharmacy records or health insurance records.

2.2.2.2.1.3.sec=If you have had cancer, we may add data from cancer registries.

2.2.2.2.1.=[G/Z/para/s3]

2.2.2.2.2.1.sec=If you have a social security number, we may ask you for it to help with adding data.

2.2.2.2.2.2.sec=It is optional.

2.2.2.2.2.3.sec=Even if we ask, you do not have to give us your social security number.

2.2.2.2.2.4.sec=You can say no and still take part in All of Us.

2.2.2.2.2.=[G/Z/para/s4]

2.2.2.2.3.1.sec=These other sources can contain sensitive data.

2.2.2.2.3.2.sec=For example, they may tell us about your mental health, or use of alcohol or drugs.

2.2.2.2.3.3.sec=They may contain sexual or infection data, including HIV status.

2.2.2.2.3.4.sec=Because of this, we will ask the All of Us ethics committee to review and approve each data source before we add it.

2.2.2.2.3.=[G/Z/para/s4]

2.2.2.2.=[G/Z/paras/s3]

2.2.2.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/2]

2.2.=[G/Z/paras/s2]

2.=[G/Z/ol/2]

=[G/Z/ol/2]
