Doc.Ti=Cooperation Agreement

Why.Secs=The {_parties} wish to provide for orderly relations among themselves, to promote collaboration and reduce misunderstandings or conflicts (the "{_Purpose}").

Note=The sections are organized into four top-level headings, following the Focus/Def/Relate/Misc pattern of most interesting to most background.  "Why" is the recitals introduction.  Here the "deal" is confidentiality, a subject that would often appear as part of Relate.  First the links to the sections, then the list of the sections, then some mechanics for linking cross-references and the like.

Why.=[G/Agt-Cooperate-CmA/Sec/Why/0.md]

Focus.=[G/Agt-Cooperate-CmA/Sec/Focus/-Cooperate/0.md]

Relate.Cooperate.=[G/Agt-Cooperate-CmA/Sec/Relate/Cov/Cooperate/0.md]

Relate.IACCM_Principles.=[G/Agt-Cooperate-CmA/Sec/Relate/Cov/IACCM_Principles/0.md]

Misc.AddEngagements.=[G/Agt-Cooperate-CmA/Sec/Misc/Amend/AddEngagements/0.md]

Def.Confidential_Information.sec="{_Confidential_Information}" means any information defined as such under a confidentiality agreement among the {_parties} that is communicated by a {_Disclosing_Party} to a {_Receiving_Party} under such agreement.

Def.Confidentiality_Engagement.sec="{_Confidentiality_Engagement}" means any of the engagements of a {_Receiving_Party} under a confidentiality agreement among the {_parties}.

Def.=[G/Agt-Cooperate-CmA/Sec/Def/-Cooperate/0.md]

Relate.=[G/Agt-Cooperate-CmA/Sec/Relate/-Cooperate/0.md]

Misc.=[G/Agt-Cooperate-CmA/Sec/Misc/-Cooperate/0.md]

_=[G/Agt-Cooperate-CmA/Sec/DefinedTerm/-Cooperate/0.md]

=[G/Agt-Form-CmA/US/Frame/2Parties/0.md]  

sec=<ol><li>{Focus.Sec}<li>{Def.Sec}<li>{Relate.Sec}<li>{Misc.Sec}</ol>

Relate.Cooperate.Xnum=<a href="#Relate.Cooperate.Sec" class="xref">1</a>

Focus.Xnum=<a href="#Focus.Sec" class="xref">1</a>

Def.Xnum=<a href="#Def.Sec" class="xref">2</a>

Relate.Xnum=<a href="#Relate.Sec" class="xref">3</a>

Misc.Xnum=<a href="#Misc.Sec" class="xref">4</a>

Focus.SecName=Focus

Def.SecName=Def

Relate.SecName=Relate

Misc.SecName=Misc

xSignature=________________________

Sign.YMD=________________________

/Note=Oxford comma.

q=,

PageBreak=</i>

//=Defaulting to no Annex.  If you need an Annex, write: "Annex.Div=<hr>{Annex.Sec}" and you'll get some framing for annexes.
x
Annex.Div=</i>