Ti=Authorization and Access Control 

1.sec=Each data processor must implement access control policies and mechanisms to ensure that only authorized users (human user or software client) may access data and services authorized and provided through the GA4GH community, and that each authenticated user is given access to all and only data and services to which it has been authorized. 

2.sec=Access authorizations may be based on organization, individual user, role, location and context (e.g., purpose, authorization time limits). 

3.sec=Each data processor must control the access to genomic and health-related data in accordance with applicable law and the personal authorizations associated with the data. 

4.sec=Each data processor must assure that any disclosure of identifiable data includes the personal authorization rules the recipient must enforce with respect to access to and use of that data. 

5.sec=Each data processor with whom genomic or health-related data is shared must control access to and use of that data in accordance with the personal authorization rules (i.e., consents, permissions) associated with the data. 

6.sec=Each data controller must put in place policies and procedures for determining whether a requesting data processor (human user or software client) is granted access to datasets and applications, and for authorizing rights and privileges associated with that access, in accordance with relevant jurisdictional laws, GA4GH policies, institutional policies, and data controller authorizations. 

7.sec=Requests for access to data through an API should be communicated in a JSON structure, as specified in the <b>GA4GH Authentication and Authorization Infrastructure</b> (AAI) standard {FtNt.9.Xnum}, and should include, at a minimum: (1) the authenticated identity and attributes of the requester (packaged in OpenID Connect tokens, using GA4GH <b>Researcher Identity</b> semantics {FtNt.12.Xnum}); (2) identification of requested resource; and (3) a description of intended use, represented in accordance with <b>GA4GH Data-Use</b> semantics {FtNt.11.Xnum}. 

8.sec=As a prerequisite to obtaining data access, each data processor should have attested that (1) data will be used only by the authorized requester; and (2) any data persisted on a user device will be disposed of in accordance with the <b>Privacy and Security Policy</b>. 

9.sec=Each data controller must assign to each data processor the minimum access rights and privileges necessary for the requested use, consistent with the user’s authenticated identity, attributes, and context. 

10.sec=Each data processor must configure service APIs and service platforms so that they allow access consistent with the <b>Privacy and Security Policy</b> and the <b>GA4GH AAI Standard</b>, while blocking inappropriate uses and accesses. 

11.sec=OpenID Connect tokens issued by trusted identity providers or brokers may be used as a basis for authorizing data processors access rights and privileges. For example, a Research Passport issued through the UK National Institute of Health Research (NIHR) Research Passport System {FtNt.13.Xnum}, might be used as the basis for authorizing researchers access rights and privileges to passport holders. 

12.sec=Each data processor should provide publicly accessible documentation of its policies and procedures for adjudicating requests for access to data and services. 

=[G/Z/ol/s12]
