Note=KI-CR08 APPENDIX B: PERSONALLY IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION (PII) CATEGORIES OF DATA  <a href="http://kantarainitiative.org/confluence/download/attachments/76447870/KI-CR08-DRAFT-Recommendation.doc?version=1&modificationDate=1470988059000&api=v2">
For a rough list see Appendix A in the 0.8 draft of the consent receipt spec http://kantarainitiative.org/confluence/download/attachments/76447870</a> (.doc download).


1.Ti=Core Function

1.sec=To enable the entity to carry out the core functions of its site/app/services.

2.Ti=Contracted Service

2.sec=To provide contracted or requested services to the PII Subject.

3.Ti=Delivery

3.sec=To deliver contracted or requested services to the PII Subject.

4.Ti=Contact Requested

4.sec=Communicating with you about information or services you specifically request.

5.Ti=Personalized Experience

5.sec=Providing you with a personalized experience of our site/app/service.

6.Ti=Marketing

6.sec=Communicating with you about our other services you may be interested in.

7.Ti=Marketing Third Parties

7.sec=Communicating with you about the services of third parties you may be interested in.

8.Ti=Use for Delivery

8.sec=Providing the information to third parties to deliver our services on our behalf.

9.Ti=Disclosure for Marketing

9.sec=Providing the information to third parties to enable them to communicate with you about their own services you may be interested in.

10.Ti=3rd Party Disclosure for Core Function

10.sec=Providing the information to third parties to enable them to deliver or improve their own services to you.

11.Ti=Legally Required Data Retention

11.sec=Complying with our legal obligations for record keeping.

12.Ti=Required by Law Enforcement or Government

12.sec=Complying with our legal obligations to provide the information to law enforcement or other regulatory/government bodies.

13.Ti=Protecting Your Health

13.sec=Protecting your vital and health interests.

14.Ti=Protecting Our Interests

14.sec=Protecting our legitimate interests, yours or those of a third party.

15.Ti=Improve Performance

15.sec=Measure or improve our performance or the delivery of our services.

16.Ti=Membership	

16.sec=???

=[Z/ol/16]
