Ti=Patient Privacy Rights Information Governance Label

0.sec=August 19, 2019

Note.Origin=[https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3439701]

Sharing.Ti=No sharing

Sharing.sec=The data is never shared with any external entities. It is not even shared in de-identified form.

Sharing.=[G/Z/Base]

Aggregation.Ti=No aggregation

Aggregation.sec=The data is never aggregated with other types of input or data from external sources. This includes mixing the data gathered via The Service with other data, such as patient-reported outcomes.

Aggregation.=[G/Z/Base]

Self-Identification.Ti=Always voluntary self-identification

Self-Identification.sec=The user of The Service is able to choose their own identity. The user does not need to have their identity verified unless required by law.

Self-Identification.=[G/Z/Base]

AgentSupport.Ti=Digital agent support

AgentSupport.sec=The user is able to specify a digital agent, trustee, or equivalent information manager, and this specified agent will not be subject to certification or censorship.

AgentSupport.=[G/Z/Base]

VendorLockIn.Ti=No vendor lock-in

VendorLockIn.sec=The Service is easily and conveniently substitutable, so the user can easily move their data to another vendor providing a similar service. This prevents vendor lock-in and is often accomplished using Open Standards.

VendorLockIn.=[G/Z/Base]

sec=<ol><li>{Sharing.Sec}</li><li>{Aggregation.Sec}</li><li>{Self-Identification.Sec}</li><li>{AgentSupport.Sec}</li><li>{VendorLockIn.Sec}</li></ol>

=[G/Z/Base]

