Ti=Technical measures

1.sec=Physical and {_logical_access} to computer systems and networks should be restricted to authorized individuals, and access granted only for those information assets and functions required to perform the user’s assigned duties.

2.sec=Whenever possible, {_data} should be pseudonymized or anonymized at the earliest possible opportunity.

3.sec=Where {_data} are pseudonymized, an organization may assign a {_key} to enable the {_data} to be re-identified. The assigned {_key} should not be derived from or related to the associated individual, should not be used for any other purpose, and should not disclose the mechanism used for re-identification. The direct identifiers associated with {_key}s should be isolated on a separate dedicated server/network without external access. A defined procedure and auditable mechanism for reversing the {_pseudonymized_data} to (re)attribute to the {_data} to a specific {_data_subject} should be in place.

4.sec=Emergency-management and disaster-recovery plans and safeguards should be implemented, including regular back-ups.

5.sec=Technical measures to secure {_data} should comply with the relevant guidance and regulations (e.g. for clinical trials) and should aim to be interoperable with {_data} sharing systems and software.

6.sec=Every system that accesses, stores, or transmits {_data} should record an audit log of all security-relevant events. Audit trails should be reviewed regularly, and all suspicious events should be investigated. Where possible, automated, enterprise-wide, audit trail monitoring, with alerts for misuse and algorithms to amend or terminate access, should be implemented. Audit logs should be maintained for a minimum of one year, or as otherwise required by applicable law, and carefully protected.

7.sec=Configuration management of all hardware and software (including operating systems) should be implemented. Every change should be reviewed for potential privacy and security impacts.

8.sec=Organizations should take recommended actions to protect {_data} and services from known and emerging threats, which would include monitoring sources of security threat information and installing security-critical upgrades as soon as they become available and have passed quality assurance testing within the organization.

9.sec=Organizations should protect {_data} from new security vulnerabilities in any software used over the lifespan of a project involving the {_data}. Such consideration should include ensuring that security patches to the software are promptly applied and that any vulnerabilities for which security patches cannot be applied in a timely way will be subject to scrutiny regarding alternative security safeguards.

10.sec=Organizations should routinely test their security systems, and periodically (e.g. yearly) engage an independent third party to perform security assessment and penetration testing.

=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s10]
