
Ti=Pricing

Note to User:

#Note=Now you can ask any pricing information in the 'Pricing' section below. We have started you off with examples of hourly rate information you can ask for, fixed pricing for various phases and a total fee cap. You can choose, modify or delete any of those, and/or add your own.  We have also started you off with example questions that you may wish to ask in the 'Questionnaire' section below. Again you can choose, modify or delete any of those, and/or add your own. 

0.sec={Company.Name.Full} is looking for a {PricingModel.sec} engagement. 		

*Choose your Preferred Pricing Model from the list below: 

PricingModel.None=None

#JGHNote=The original said "Feed" - good for chickens.

PricingModel.Fixed.sec=Fixed Fee

PricingModel.Capped.sec=Capped Fee

PricingModel.Contingency.sec=Contingency Fee

PricingModel.Success.sec=Success Fee

PricingModel.Hourly.sec=Hourly Rates

PricingModel.Estimate.sec=Estimate Only

PricingModel.Other=[Other-write your own]??


PricingModel.Alt1.sec={PricingModel.Fixed}

PricingModel.Alt2.sec={PricingModel.Capped}

PricingModel.Alt3.sec={PricingModel.Contingency}

PricingModel.Alt4.sec={PricingModel.Success}

PricingModel.Alt5.sec={PricingModel.Hourly}

PricingModel.Alt6.sec={PricingModel.Estimate}

PricingModel.Alt7.sec={PricingModel.Other}

PricingModel.=[G/Z/Alt/7]

PricingModel.SecName=PricingModel

Table.Ti=Pricing Breakdown

Note to User:
You can ask firms to complete the parts of the following table that is relevant to your RFP.

Table.1.Ti=Item

Table.2.Ti=Preferred Pricing Model

Table.3.Ti=Description

Table.4.Ti=$USD

Table.1.1.sec=Phase 1 Deliverable: {Matter.Description.Title}

Table.2.1.sec=Fixed Fee

Table.3.1.sec={Table.Description.Fixed.sec}

Table.Description.Fixed.sec=Provide a description here of the first phase of work you require to be delivered, and any milestones to be achieved as part of that first phase. Add any more phases and their descriptions as required for your RFP. 	

Table.1.2.sec=Partner Rate

Table.2.2.sec=Hourly Rates

Table.3.2.sec=Please provide the hourly rate of the partner that will have the day to day conduct of this matter. 	

Table.1.3.sec=Senior Associate Rate

Table.2.3.sec=Hourly Rates

Table.3.3.sec=Please provide the hourly rate of the senior associates working on this matter. 	

Table.1.4.sec=Junior Associate Rate

Table.2.4.sec=Hourly Rates

Table.3.4.sec=Please provide the hourly rate of the junior associates working on this matter. 	

Table.1.5.sec=Paralegal

Table.2.5.sec=Hourly Rates

Table.3.5.sec=Please provide the hourly rate of any paralegals assigned to this matter. 	

Table.=[G/Z/table/col/4]

Table.=[G/Z/table/row/5]

4.1.sec={Counsel.Pricing.Fixed.$}

4.2.sec={Counsel.Pricing.Partner.$}

4.3.sec={Counsel.Pricing.SeniorAssociate.$}

4.4.sec={Counsel.Pricing.JuniorAssociate.$}

4.5.sec={Counsel.Pricing.Paralegal.$}

1.Sec={Table.Sec}

=[G/Z/ol/1]