Ti=WorldCC/Capgemini report

0.sec=Non-official - just a few extracts to collect criteria.  For purposes of this summary - "contracts" includes proposals, things-in-progress, etc.  https://www.WorldCC.com/resources/?id=10162

1.Ti=Document creation, edit, negotiation

1.0.sec=Assemble clauses into a contract.

1.1.sec=-Manual, Decision-tree, or ANALYTICS

1.2.sec=-Populate a clause library, compare clauses

1.3.sec=-Change management - negotiation

1.=[OTF/Z/ol/s3]

2.Ti=Approval Flows

2.1.sec=-Specify approval processes

2.2.sec=-Capture sign-offs

2.3.sec=-Monitor progress

2.=[OTF/Z/ol/s3]

3.Ti=Reports

3.sec=Find and report information from contracts.


4.Ti=Contract Discovery

4.sec=This means semantic search.  Classification by type of doc, relationships to others, subsequent events, etc.  Seems large overlap with section 3 (Reports).


5.Ti=Obligation Management

5.0.sec="Obligations" are the stuff that the parties are actually supposed to do - e.g., deliver the package, mow the lawn, build the bridge, supply the labor for ....

5.1.sec=Aspects include "(e.g., obligation extraction, reminder sending/
reconciliation, or throughout)"

5.2.sec=<i>Compliance Management</i> -  "Advanced tools provide data points driven by classic obligation management to then “crunch” the data and show where repeated weaknesses are occurring on a deeper level. A typical example is that often a deliverable or obligation is met but is either late or at a different price."

5.=[OTF/Z/ol/s2]

6.Ti=Document Repository

6.sec="The most basic activity in the full contract management lifecycle is to store the contracts in an electronic and searchable way. But strangely many companies don’t have a single defined repository, even with GDPR and other regulations virtually demanding it. Thus, this is a capability all platform solutions must have and use at the core of their systems. Many of the functionalities in this capability are similar and standard. The only real differentiator in technology is whether a tool is using metadata or metadata with tagging. Metadata has been around for decades and most of us have used this whether we know it not. The whole idea of defined keyword searching goes back in knowledge management and even library science. The limitation with metadata is that if a term is not in the metadata, it is not searchable. Tagging is the more innovative way that many companies are moving towards"


7.Ti=Dispute Management

7.sec="More advanced platforms have options for collaboration options or “joint rooms” where dispute information can be kept and accessed."


8.Ti=Performance Management & Calculations

8.sec=" more innovative tools will do calculations based upon service level requirements and contract requirements and the most advanced tools are bringing automation and collaboration with them, essentially turning systems from intra-enterprise tools into tools that support interenterprise information flows and management."

9.Ti=Contract Change Management

9.sec="Good contracts should mirror and shape relationships and will naturally evolve as the relationship or its requirements evolve."


10.Ti=Contract Information Extract / Machine Learning

10.sec="As noted above, elements of extraction and machine learning permeate almost every other process and capability."

11.Ti=Collaboration with Counter Parties

11.sec="The most advanced allow parties to negotiate in real time and with transparency and to benefit from e-signature."

12.Ti=RFX (Request for Information, Request for Offer, etc.)

12.sec="The market is seeing more procurement tools with CLM capabilities and CLM tools with procurement capabilities."

13.Ti=Management Reporting

13.sec=" But the more innovative tools provide reporting which is more akin to data analytics tools. The quality of reporting and ease of accessing data has been a major shortfall in past systems, often constraining user adoption. Systems have also struggled to establish effective interfaces with other enterprise databases, especially since contract-related data is often spread across multiple applications owned by different functions."

14.Ti=Contract Portfolio Analysis

14.sec="Many tools can basically group contracts, but more advanced tools give details within that group. .... It is through advanced analytics that the economic and risk impact of contracts and the contracting process will become appreciated, generating far greater attention on this activity – and ultimately on the overall functionality of CLM systems."

=[OTF/Z/ol/14]