IndemnifyIndemnitee.ClaimsByOthers.=[G/Z/Base]

[Comment:  Section 145(a) permits indemnification of officers, directors, employees or agents for attorneys’ fees and other expenses as well as for judgments or amounts paid in settlement in civil cases.  As noted above, Section 145(a) applies only to third-party actions and not to derivative actions.  The person seeking indemnification must have acted in good faith and in a manner reasonably believed to be in the best interests of, or not opposed to the best interests of, the corporation in connection with the claim made against such person.  In criminal cases, the indemnitee may be indemnified for fines and costs provided that, in addition to the foregoing standard of conduct, the indemnitee must not have had reasonable cause to believe that indemnitee’s conduct was unlawful.  Section {IndemnifyIndemnitee.ClaimsByOthers.Xnum} of the Agreement essentially tracks Section 145(a), except that it makes indemnification mandatory rather than permissive.  

The distinction between third-party and derivative actions is critical to understanding the statutory framework.  A derivative action is an action brought by the corporation or by a stockholder on behalf of the corporation to redress a wrong done by someone to the corporation.  Therefore, the derivative action must be based upon an alleged injury to the corporation which caused harm to the corporation itself, and to the stockholder only derivatively through their ownership of stock in the corporation.  In some cases, there can be uncertainty as to whether a particular action constitutes a derivative action (i.e., to address a breach of a duty to the corporation) or a third-party action (i.e., a direct harm to the third party plaintiff).

Proceedings that allege breach of fiduciary duties of officers and directors to the corporation often are derivative actions, and actions against officers and directors for violations of federal securities laws (e.g., actions alleging a violation of Section 11 of the 1933 Act in connection with a public offering of securities or Rule 10b-5 in connection with an offer or sale of securities) would normally be third-party actions.  Therefore, absent public policy concerns, an action against a director or officer alleging federal securities law liability would fall within the relatively favorable third-party indemnification provisions of Section 145(a).  As noted above, Section 145(a) permits indemnity even if the director or officer loses the case, so long as the indemnitee meets the applicable standard following a determination pursuant to Section 145(d).

The SEC has taken the position, however, that even if a director or officer meets the relevant standard of conduct for indemnification under corporate law, corporate indemnification for liabilities arising under the 1933 Act is against public policy.  In addition, courts have held that indemnification for violations of either the 1933 Act or the 1934 Act is contrary to public policy, at least for violations based upon culpable behavior greater than ordinary negligence.

These public policy limitations may apply to a variety of sources of liability under the 1933 Act and 1934 Act, including (i) Section 12 of the 1933 Act for offers and sales of securities, (ii) Rule 10b-5 of the 1934 Act for violation of antifraud provisions, (iii) Section 16(b) of the 1934 Act for short–swing trading profits, (iv) Section 15 of the 1933 Act and Section 20 of the 1934 Act for liability of control persons and Section 18 of the 1934 Act for misleading statements.  Thus, even though otherwise permissible under Section 145(a), indemnification may be contrary to the public policy underlying the federal securities laws and therefore unenforceable.  These potential limitations on indemnity underscore the importance of having separate D&O Insurance coverage.]  
