[Comment:  Section 2 provides for additional indemnification beyond the scope of indemnification provided by Section 1.  For example, Section 2 provides for mandatory indemnification of judgments, penalties, fines and amounts paid in settlement of derivative actions.  The only limitation is that no indemnification is required to the extent that it is finally determined to be unlawful in accordance with procedures and presumptions set forth in the agreement.  

The scope of additional protection provided by Section 2 is unclear.  As noted above, although Section 145(f) expressly permits contractual indemnification rights beyond the statutory rights provided for in Section 145, the enforceability of such contractual rights may be limited by statute, court decision and public policy.

Contractual indemnification rights beyond Section 145 can be classified into different categories that may be helpful in assessing their enforceability.  Some contractual rights make indemnification which is permissive under Section 145 mandatory (e.g., a provision requiring indemnification relating to third-party actions to the extent permitted under Section 145(a)).  Other contractual rights attempt to clarify or supplement statutory rights without significantly altering those rights (e.g., a procedural requirement that a corporation advance expenses within a certain period of time following a proper undertaking from the indemnitee or defining “independent legal counsel” for purposes of making a determination under Section 145(d)).  Still other contractual rights specify policies, procedures and presumptions that have the purpose or effect of enhancing indemnification rights beyond the provisions of Section 145 (e.g., a presumption that an individual has met the applicable standard of care or a provision that a determination that the applicable standard of care is deemed to be met if no such determination is made within a specified period).  Finally, some contractual indemnification rights appear to be inconsistent with the limits on indemnification specified in Section 145 (e.g., a provision indemnifying for judgments in derivative actions even if the indemnitee has engaged in intentionally culpable behavior).

One commentator has noted:  “There is no case which spells out the precise perimeters of the extent to which an indemnification agreement . . . may go in providing indemnification rights . . . under Section 145(f) . . .  Although there is no case law on point, it is probable that a Delaware court would not allow indemnification under a . . . contract when the proposed indemnification is prohibited by law or public policy. . . . Nevertheless, Section 145(f) does provide support for wide-ranging agreements which broaden or enlarge upon indemnification rights granted in the various other subsections of Section 145, although provisions in such a[n] . . . agreement which are contrary to limitations or prohibitions set forth in other subsections may be held unenforceable if they violate other statutes, court decisions or public policies. . . . For example, because of the limitations of Section 145(b), a corporation may not be able to indemnify under the authority of Section 145(f) for judgments or amounts paid in settlements in derivative suits. . . . On the other hand, Section 145(f) may authorize the adoption of various procedures and presumptions to make the process of indemnification more favorable to the indemnitee without violating that statute.”  See Balotti and Finkelstein, Delaware Law of Corporation and Business Organizations, § 4.12[E] at 4-97 to 4-98.

Sometimes a contract providing for indemnification beyond Section 145 will itself contain limitations on the scope of additional indemnification.  These limitations might include prohibitions on indemnification for (i) violations of insider trading laws such as Section 16(b) of the 1934 Act, (ii) conduct that is determined to be knowingly fraudulent or deliberately dishonest or to constitute willful misconduct, (iii) actions brought by the corporation, (iv) actions brought by the indemnitee without board approval, and (v) actions relating to proxy contests in opposition to the board.  See Section 9 below.]
