Ti=Defined Terms

AI_Model.sec=“{_AI_Model}” means the machine learning algorithm described in Attachment A, including associated parameters and associated weights, if present.

Comment: This definition contemplates that the AI Model may be an entirely untrained machine learning algorithm, without any associated parameters or weights, or that it may be a partially trained algorithm. Attachment A should be used to identify and describe the particular AI Model that will be Trained by Data User.

Note=OPTIONAL:

NDA.sec=“{_NDA}” means a non-disclosure agreement governing the exchange of confidential information between the {_parties}.

Open_Source_License.sec=“{_Open_Source_License}” means a license that meets all of the requirements of the “The Open Source Definition” as published by the Open Source Initiative at https://opensource.org/osd.

Comment: The definition published by the Open Source Initiative is familiar to, and generally accepted by, the open source community. Many of the most common open source licenses in use today, such as the MIT license, would satisfy the definition.

Personal_Data.sec=“{_Personal_Data}” means any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person and any other information that constitutes personal data or personal information under any applicable law. An identifiable natural person is one who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by referencing an identifier such as a name, an identification number, location data, an online identifier, or to one or more factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural, or social identity of that natural person.

Comment: This definition of Personal Data leverages the definition set out in the GDPR, but also extends to any other information deemed “personal data” or “personal information” by applicable law. So, for example, this definition would cover protected health information (PHI) if the data is regulated by HIPAA, because PHI is defined in 45 CFR 160.103 as “individually identifiable health information.”

Train.sec=“{_Train}” means to provide the {_AI_Model} with {_Training_Data} for the purpose of enhancing the predictive capabilities of the {_AI_Model}.

Trained_Model.sec=“{_Trained_Model}” means the {_AI_Model} as modified following {_Training}, including associated weights.

Training_Data.sec=“{_Training_Data}” means the dataset described in Attachment A to be provided by the {_Data_Provider} to the {_Data_User} for the purpose of {_Training} the {_AI_Model}.

sec=<ol type="a"><li>{AI_Model.sec}</li><li>{NDA.sec}</li><li>{Open_Source_License.sec}</li><li>{Personal_Data.sec}</li><li>{Train.sec}</li><li>{Trained_Model.sec}</li><li>{Training_Data.sec}</li></ol>


=[G/Z/Base]

