Ti=Interpretation

0.sec=The following definitions and rules of interpretation apply in this agreement.

1.sec={Def.sec}

2.sec=Clause headings shall not affect the interpretation of this agreement.

3.sec=A person includes a natural person, corporate or unincorporated body (whether or not having separate legal personality).

4.sec=A reference to a company includes any company, corporation or other body corporate, wherever and however incorporated or established.

5.sec=Unless the context otherwise requires, words in the singular shall include the plural and in the plural include the singular.

6.sec=Unless the context otherwise requires, a reference to one gender shall include a reference to the other genders.

7.sec=This agreement shall be binding on, and enure to the benefit of, the parties to this agreement and their respective personal representatives, successors and permitted assigns, and references to any party shall include that party's personal representatives, successors and permitted assigns.

8.sec={Construe.Legislation.sec}

Construe.Legislation.Alt1.sec={Construe.Legislation.UnlessException.sec}

Construe.Legislation.UnlessException.sec=Unless expressly provided otherwise in this agreement, a reference to legislation or a legislative provision is a reference to it {Construe.legislation_as.sec}.

Construe.legislation_as.Alt1.sec={Construe.legislation_as.Amended.sec}

Construe.legislation_as.Amended.sec=as amended, extended or re-enacted from time to time

Construe.legislation_as.Alt2.sec={Construe.legislation_as.InForce.sec}

Construe.legislation_as.InForce.sec=as it is in force as at the date of agreement

Construe.legislation_as.SecName=legislation_as

Construe.legislation_as.=[G/Z/Alt/2]

Construe.Legislation.Alt2.sec={Construe.Legislation.NoException.sec}

Construe.Legislation.NoException.sec=A reference to legislation or a legislative provision is a reference to it {Construe.legislation_as.sec}.

Construe.Legislation.SecName=Construe.Legislation

Construe.Legislation.=[G/Z/Alt/2]

9.sec={Legislation.Unless_expressly_provided_otherwise} reference to legislation or a legislative provision shall include all subordinate legislation made {Legislation.from_time_to_time} under that legislation or legislative provision.

10.sec=Any obligation on a party not to do something includes an obligation not to allow that thing to be done.

11.sec=A reference to writing or written includes {Writing.Medium.Includes.cl}.

12.sec=Any reference to an English legal term for any action, remedy, method of judicial proceeding, legal document, legal status, court, official or any legal concept or thing shall, in respect of any jurisdiction other than England, be deemed to include a reference to that which most nearly approximates to the English legal term in that jurisdiction.

13.sec=A reference to a document is a reference to that document as varied or novated from time to time.

14.sec=References to clauses are to the clauses of this agreement.

15.sec=Unless otherwise expressly provided, the obligations and liabilities of {Liability.Joint.the_persons} under this agreement are joint and several.

16.sec=Any words following the terms including, include, in particular, for example or any similar expression shall be construed as illustrative and shall not limit the sense of the words, description, definition, phrase or term preceding those terms.

=[G/Z/ol/s16]
