Ti=Criteria

0.sec=We will ask them to determine whether projects are impactful, evidence-based, feasible, and durable.

1.sec=Impactful is the goal of the competition. Does the proposal describe the urgent problem worth solving, and will the solution have a transformative impact? <a href="index.php?action=doc&file=G/MacArthur100Change/Criteria/Impactful/0.md">G/MacArthur100Change/Criteria/Impactful/0.md</a>

2.sec=The second criteria is evidence-based. We want to know, will the solution work? Does the proposal present evidence that the solution or critical components of it have previously yielded practical and concrete results? This is not a competition to test a new idea or theory. Does the evidence suggest that the solution can be adapted to other contexts, such as expanding to new populations or geographies, or to reach a greater number of people over time, and still retain its effectiveness? <a href="index.php?action=doc&file=G/MacArthur100Change/Criteria/Evidence/0.md">G/MacArthur100Change/Criteria/Evidence/0.md</a>

3.sec=The third criteria is feasible. When it comes to feasibility, the kinds of questions we want peers and wise heads to consider are: Does the team have the skills, capacity, relationships, and experience to deliver its proposal? <a href="index.php?action=doc&file=G/MacArthur100Change/Criteria/Feasible/0.md">G/MacArthur100Change/Criteria/Feasible/0.md</a>

4.sec=The last criteria, durable, is the one that sets 100&Change apart. If we were focused on solving a problem, we want the $100 million solution to have a sustained impact. <a href="index.php?action=doc&file=G/MacArthur100Change/Criteria/Durable/0.md">G/MacArthur100Change/Criteria/Durable/0.md</a>

=[G/Z/ol/s4]

History:=

Source URL=[?https://www.macfound.org/press/article/frequently-asked-questions/#6%20What%20criteria]

Note=Additions (not part of the original):

Table=<ol><li>{Impactful.Sec}<li>{Evidence.Sec}<li>{Feasible.Sec}<li>{Durable.Sec}</ol>

Impactful.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Criteria/Impactful/0.md]

Evidence.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Criteria/Evidence/0.md]

Feasible.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Criteria/Feasible/0.md]

Durable.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Criteria/Durable/0.md]