
Ti=Some technical stuff, then we’re done!

Changes.Ti=Changes & Additions

Changes.sec=If you request and we approve changes during the year, we will send you a new policy. That policy will apply from that point to the original expiration date.

Changes.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

Term.Ti=Cancellation & Renewal

Term.1.sec=Your policy is for a year and will automatically renew until it is canceled by you or by us.

Term.2.sec=If we choose to cancel or not renew this policy, we’ll notify you at <b>{Insured.Email}</b>. We will provide at least 10 days notice so you can get a new policy. If that’s not your email, you can change it <a href="In the real doc, this will open our Live Policy editor">here</a>.

Term.3.sec=You are free to cancel your policy at any time, and we will return any leftover part of your paid premiums. Also, please note cancellation will only take place from the date you asked us to cancel the policy, and not before.

Term.4.sec=If you fail to make a payment, we will try to reach you at the email you provided. If you do not pay within 10 days of the due date, your policy will be canceled immediately.

Term.=[G/Z/ol/s4]

Dispute.Ti=Arbitration & Complaints

Dispute.1.sec=We hope we never have any disagreements, and prefer to settle disagreements in the most collaborative way possible. For this reason, both you and us commit that disagreement related to this contract will be settled by arbitration, administered by the American Arbitration Association, in accordance with its Commercial Arbitration Rules, and judgment by the arbitrator may be entered in any court of appropriate jurisdiction.

Dispute.2.sec=Alternatively, if you’d like to make a complaint, please <a href="In the real doc, this will allow you to get in touch directly">contact us</a>.

Dispute.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

Subrogate.Ti=When someone else caused your damage

Subrogate.1.sec=‘Subrogation’ is a fancy term for when ‘someone else is responsible for your loss.’ If we pay you for a loss under this policy, then you give us the right to pursue the responsible party to recover what we can. If we recover enough money from them, we’ll even send you back part of your deductible.

Subrogate.2.sec=We can’t promise we’ll collect, but you give us the right to try. If you get reimbursed by someone else, like your credit card company, your friend, or landlord, you agree to return the money we paid you for that loss. No double-collecting allowed!

Subrogate.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

State.Ti=Clarifications Required by the Great State of {Policy.Cover.Address.State}.

State.sec=Your state is a very special place, and it asked that we clarify the following...

State.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

sec=<ol><li>{Changes.Sec}<li>{Term.Sec}<li>{Dispute.Sec}<li>{Subrogate.Sec}<li>{State.Sec}</ol>

=[G/Z/ol/Base]
