Ti=Personal Information Update  - Notice and Invitation

0.1.sec={P1.US.N/1/2}

0.2.sec={EffectiveDate.YMD}

0.3.sec=Dear {P1.Name.First},

0.=[G/Z/paras/s3]

1.sec=We write to offer you an opportunity to review and correct the information that we have regarding you.  

2.sec=If you request (at the link below), we will organize the personal information that we have received from you and will send it to you along with an app that will let you edit your own information.  You can send back to us the edited information and we will try to conform our information to your preferences.

3.0.sec=You can ask us to:

3.1.sec=correct information by editing the information to make it correct

3.2.sec=remove any information by marking it for removal

3.3.sec=specify a limitation on use of an item of information

3.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

3.secs={3.secs;and}

4.sec=While we will attempt to respect your wishes, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to make all the changes you express.  We will inform you of any ones that we are not able to do, along with the reason why we cannot.  We will tell you how you can re-request the changes, and about appeals. 

5.sec=The app will allow you to store the information on your own computer so that you have a working copy.  You can use this for any purpose of course.  We suggest that you can also use that information with other companies that have your private information.   

6.0.sec=The steps in this procedure are:

6.1.sec=This notice and invitation. 

6.2.sec=Your request to us for a copy of your information and the free app for handling the information.

6.3.sec=You edit the information and send us the corrected copy along with consent to use the information as corrected. 

6.4.sec=We evaluate your corrected information and make all the changes we can.  We send you a confirmation that we have made all the changes or a list of the changes we have not been able to make. 

6.5.sec=If we have rejected some changes, you can accept the result, or re-request some or all of the rejected changes.

6.6.sec=We will carefully review the list of re-requests and make those we can and inform you of those we cannot.   We will also provide you with information about how to appeal or make a complaint to the authorities.

6.=[G/Z/ol/s6]

7.sec=You can continue to use the app for as long as you like.  We will provide you with information about how to keep it up to date.  We provide no guarante about the app beyond the use for correcting information with us.

8.sec=Please feel free to contact us at:  {P2.Email}, {P2.Phone}, {P2.N,1,2}

00.sec={P2.Name.Full}

=[G/Z/ol/s8]