{_Site_Name} Privacy Policy

0.1.sec=Maintaining the privacy and security of your personal information is our priority.  In order for us to succeed, we need to earn and maintain your trust

0.2.sec=We do not sell or give your name, email address, or phone number to anyone. The administrators of each circle can see a record of participation for each member (ie number of articles posted, time when you joined or left a video meeting, etc), but we do not share your contact information with anyone in order to protect your privacy.

0.3.sec=Some other sites unfortunately see their visitors as the product; they give away free services to collect personal information which they sell to advertisers.  We see the world very differently– we see you as the customer and not the product; our goal is to connect you to your peers for high-quality and collaborative live events.  We make money when organizations buy {_Site_Name} software not by selling your contact information.

0.4.sec=We use Google Analytics and Heap Analytics to help us understand data about traffic to our website, such as how many users click which pages.  Google and Heap have their own privacy policies for those services.

0.5.sec=If you log in from a third-party service such as Twitter/Google/etc, we take your privacy seriously and store only your name and zip code. We do not take any actions on your behalf such as posting to social networks.

0.6.sec=Please Feel Free to Contact Us.  If you have any questions or suggestions about our privacy policy, please email us at hello@qiqochat.com.

1.Ti=More Details

1.1.Ti=What Personal Identification Information Do We Collect?

1.1.sec=When you create a {_Site_Name} account you must create a username which does not have to be your real name. You may also choose enter your real name, email address, postal code, and phone number, but this information is optional. You may also choose to verify your email address by clicking the email confirmation link we send you.

1.2.Ti=How Do We Collect Your Data?

1.2.0.sec=You directly provide with most of the data we collect. We collect data and process data when you take the following actions:

1.2.1.sec=Create a user account on {_Site_Name}.

1.2.2.sec=Place an order for any of our products or services.

1.2.3.sec=Voluntarily post ideas via {_Site_Name} tools such as the peer-to-peer newsletter, Web-based and email-based conversations, or topics during live video events and workshops.

1.2.4.sec=Fill out the contact-us form on our homepage.

1.2.5.sec=Use or view our website.

.sec= Our company may also receive your data from the following sources:
.sec=When you start and finish a Zoom audio/video meeting, Zoom sends us your start and end time and we store that in our database.
.sec=When you call our helpline, Twilio sends us your phone number to our GMail accounts so we can call you back in case the call gets dropped.
.sec=Google Analytics provides us with demographic data in the aggregate, such as how many users visited our site from California, or how many users are in which age group.
.sec=Stripe is the company that manages all the credit card transactions on {_Site_Name}. Stripe sends us the expiration date and last four digits of your credit card so that we can answer any of your questions about why a payment did not go through.
.sec=If the host of an event integrates their circle or event with Eventbrite, Eventbrite sends us your name and email address so that we can create an account for you and grant you access to the event that you registered for on Qiqo.
.sec=Third Party Services Have their Own Privacy Policies and Collect Data when You Use Our Website:
.sec=Google Analytics and Heap are the tools we use to measure traffic such as how many people visit each page.
.sec=If you call the tech support line, Twilio connects your call to us.
.sec=When we process your order, you send your credit card information to Stripe directly. It does not go through our servers. Stripe is one of the leading payment processing platforms with an outstanding reputation.
.sec=If your circle administrator integrated Slack into their Qiqo circle, then when you take some actions on Qiqo such as creating a new event that action might be sent to Slack in order to send notifications of recent activity to members of your Slack community.
.sec=If your circle administrator integrated Google Calendar into their Qiqo circle, then when you post an event on Qiqo it is also posted to a Google calendar.
.sec=If your circle administrator integrated Google Drive into their Qiqo circle, then when you search on Qiqo you are also searching on Google drive.
.sec=If you create an account or sign in with a third party service such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Slack, LinkedIn, or Meetup, that service will see when you signed into {_Site_Name}.
.sec=If you upload a file or an image it is stored in the cloud via Amazon Web Services.
.sec=How Will We Use Your Data?
.sec=Our company collects your data so that we can take the following actions:
.sec=Process your orders to make sure you have access to the tools and services that you paid for.
.sec=Grant you access to private circles and events where the creator of the event or circle has specified that your email address is on the access list.
.sec=How Do We Store Your Data?
.sec=Our company securely stores your data in a Postgres database stored on Amazon’s servers, managed by a world-class hosting company named Heroku. Our company will keep your data until you ask us to delete it.
.sec=How do We Protect Your Data?
.sec=We give you tools to restrict access to your circles by ensuring that only people who are signed in with an email address on your approved list can access your circle’s items such as events and written conversations.
.sec=We give you a link to sign into Zoom as the host so you can restrict access to your meetings by using a waiting room or muting or removing people.
.sec=We maintain passwords on all our devices and encrypt our hard drives.
.sec=We use https protocol to transmit your data and a valid SSL certificate from a trusted authority.
.sec=We make links to your events hard to guess by including long string of randomized characters which is very difficult to guess.
.sec=What Can You Do To Protect Your Data?
.sec=Restrict access to your circles by making them private.
.sec=Use Google Docs in your live events rather than the default EtherPad notes, because Google Docs can have fine-grained access rules whereas access to the default EtherPad notes is not restricted.
.sec=Marketing
.sec=If you create a {_Site_Name} account — unlike other websites — we will not automatically subscribe you to an email marketing campaign. If you create a circle on {_Site_Name}, we will occasionally email you any relevant updates to {_Site_Name} tools so that you can manage your circles more effectively.
.sec=You have the right at any time to stop our company from contacting you by sending an email to privacy@qiqochat.com.
.sec= 
.sec=What are Your Data Protection Rights?
.sec=Our Company would like to make sure you are fully aware of all of your data protection rights. Every user is entitled to the following:
.sec=The right to access – You have the right to request copies of your personal data.
.sec=The right to rectification – You have the right to request that we correct any information you believe is inaccurate. You also have the right to ask us to complete information you believe is incomplete.
.sec=The right to erasure – You have the right to ask us to erase your personal data.
.sec=The right to restrict processing – You have the right to request that we restrict the processing of your personal data.
.sec=The right to object to processing – You have the right to object to our processing of your personal data.
.sec=The right to data portability – You have the right to request that we transfer the data that we have collected directly to you.
.sec=If you make a request, we have one month to respond to you. If you would like to exercise any of these rights, please email privacy@qiqochat.com.
.sec= 
.sec=Cookies
.sec=Cookies are text files placed on your computer to collect standard Internet log information and visitor behavior information. When you visit our websites, we collect information from you automatically through cookies or similar technologies. For further information, visit allaboutcookies.org.
.sec= 
.sec=How Do We Use Cookies?
.sec=Our Company uses cookies in a range of ways to improve your experience on our website, including:
.sec=Keeping you signed in
.sec=Understanding how you use our website
.sec= 
.sec=What Types of Cookies Do We Use?
.sec=There are a number of different types of cookies, however, our website uses cookies for these purposes:
.sec=Functionality – We use these cookies so that we recognize you on our website and remember your previously selected preferences. These could include what language you prefer and location you are in. A mix of first-party and third-party cookies are used.
.sec= 
.sec=How to Manage Cookies
.sec=You can set your browser not to accept cookies, and the above website tells you how to remove cookies from your browser. However, in a few cases, some of our website features may not function as a result.
.sec= 
.sec=Privacy Policies of Other Websites
.sec=Our website contains links to other websites. Our privacy policy applies only to our website, so if you click on a link to another website, you should read their privacy policy.
.sec= 
.sec=Changes to our Privacy Policy
.sec=Our company keeps its privacy policy under regular review and places any updates on this web page. This privacy policy was last updated on April 16, 2020.
.sec= 
.sec=How to Contact Us
.sec=If you have any questions about our company’s privacy policy, the data we collect, or you would like to exercise one of your data protection rights, please do not hesitate to contact us. Please email us at privacy@qiqochat.com..sec=