
Ti=Definitions


0.sec=The following meanings apply in this {_Licence}:

Licence.sec={_Licence} means this CERN Open Hardware Licence - Permissive  version 2.

Source.sec={_Source} means information such as design or computer code which can be applied to Make a {_Product} regardless of its medium or how it is expressed. It includes schematics, logic diagrams, circuit or circuit board layouts, bills of materials, transistor models, standard cells, test vectors, test benches, chip layouts, mechanical drawings, flow charts and descriptive text, scripts and hardware descriptions using hardware description languages and may include {_Notice}s.

Covered_Source.sec={_Covered_Source} means {_Source} that is explicitly made available under this {_Licence}.

Product.sec={_Product} means any device, component, work or physical object, whether in finished or intermediate form, arising from the use, application or processing of {_Covered_Source}.

Note="Made" and "Making" are not defined, but is used.  Have parameterized them. 

Make.sec={_Make} means to create or configure something, whether by manufacture, assembly, compiling, loading or applying {_Covered_Source} or another {_Product} or otherwise.

Notice.sec={_Notice} means copyright, acknowledgement and trademark notices, references to the location of any {_Notice}s, modification notices (section {Copy.Notice.Xnum}) and all notices that refer to this {_Licence} and to the disclaimer of warranties that are included in the {_Covered_Source}.

Licensee.sec={_Licensee} or {_You}  means any person exercising rights under this {_Licence}.

Licensor.sec={_Licensor} means a person who creates {_Source} or modifies {_Covered_Source} and subsequently {_Convey}s the resulting {_Covered_Source} under the terms and conditions of this {_Licence}. A person may be a {_Licensee} and a {_Licensor} at the same time.

Note=Conveyed and "Conveyance" are not defined. Have parameterized them.

Convey.sec={_Convey} means to communicate to the public or distribute.


xlist=<ol><li>{Licence.sec}<li>{Source.sec}<li>{Covered_Source.sec}<li>{Product.sec}<li>{Make.sec}<li>{Notice.sec}<li>{Licensee.sec}<li>{Licensor.sec}<li>{Convey.sec}</ol>

=[G/Z/Base]

