Ti=Definitions


2.sec=Business Day:

3.sec=Charges: the charges set out in Schedule 3 of the Framework Agreement or as otherwise specified in Part 2.

4.sec=control:

//=Defined, but not used!

Customer_Party_Affiliate.sec=Customer Party Affiliate: an Affiliate of the Customer Party.

Customer_Party_Background_IPR.sec=Customer Party Background IPRs: all Intellectual Property Rights in the Customer Party Materials.

Customer_Party_Manager.sec=Customer Party Manager: {P1.Manager.Name.Full} or such person as notified by the Customer Party to the Supplier from time to time.

Customer_Party_Material.sec=Customer Party Materials: all materials, equipment and tools, drawings, specifications and data supplied by the Customer Party to the Supplier.

Foreground_IPR.sec=Foreground IPRs: all Intellectual Property Rights in the Deliverables, other than Supplier Background IPRs.

Mandatory_Policy.sec=Mandatory Policies: the Customer Party's business policies {and codes} {MP.Attached.sec}.

MP.Attached.Alt1.sec=attached

MP.Attached.Alt2.sec=listed in Part 3

MP.Attached.Alt3.sec=listed in Part 3, as amended by notification to the Supplier from time to time].

MP.Attached.=[G/Z/Alt/3]

Supplier_Manager.sec=Supplier Manager: {P2.Manager.Name.Full} or such person as notified by the Supplier to the Customer Party from time to time.

TUPE.sec=TUPE: the Transfer of Undertakings (Protection of Employment) Regulations 2006 (SI 2006/46) (as amended).

=[G/Z/ol-none/s17]

sec=<ol><li>{Affiliate.sec}<li>{Business_Day.sec}<li>{control.sec}<li>{Customer_Party_Affiliate.sec}<li>{Customer_Party_Background_IPR.sec}<li>{Customer_Party_Manager.sec}<li>{Customer_Party_Material.sec}<li>{Deliverable.sec}<li>{Foreground_IPR.sec}<li>{Framework_Agreement_Commencement_Date.sec}<li>{Intellectual_Property_Right.sec}<li>{Mandatory_Policy.sec}<li>{Service.sec}<li>{Supplier_Background_IPR.sec}<li>{Supplier_Manager.sec}<li>{TUPE.sec}</ol>

=[G/IACCM-Agt-MasterFramework-Call-off-CmA/Sec/Def/0.md]
