
Note=Article 7.8 Annotation: The data provider and data recipient may decide to terminate the agreement, as a result of a change in circumstances or for other reasons. They should agree how to terminate their agreement before completion of data sharing activities started under it. This provision identifies different triggers for terminating the agreement. It also requires the parties to consider the consequences termination might create and, after termination, to continue to fulfil responsibilities the agreement created for data privacy, information confidentiality, assignment of intellectual property rights, and benefits shared. It also requires any pending activities to be terminated in an orderly way, for example liabilities settled.

Ti=Termination of the {_Agreement}

1.0.sec=At any time the {_Agreement} is in effect, a {_Party} may terminate it:

1.1.sec=With the consent of the other {_Party};

1.2.sec=Under the conditions stipulated in Article {Misc.Dispute.Xnum}(c) on dispute resolution;

1.3.sec=Pursuant to the governing law when the {_Parties} have made the {_Agreement} a binding contract for an {_Activity} under Article {ScopeOfApplication.Activity.Xnum}.; or

1.4.sec=Subject to Article {Misc.Termination.Xnum}(b), when the other {_Party} does not fulfil its responsibilities under the {_Agreement} in ways that harm an {_Activity}, the purpose of the {_Agreement}, or the principles informing it.

1.=[G/Z/ol-i/s4]

2.sec=A {_Party} may notify the other {_Party} that it intends to terminate the {_Agreement}. Unless the other {_Party} responds by issuing a notification of a dispute under Article {Misc.Dispute.Xnum}, the {_Agreement} terminates {Life.End.NoticePeriod.Days} calendar days after the date of the notice to terminate. 

3.sec=In deciding whether to terminate the {_Agreement}, each {_Party} shall consider the negative consequences termination might create for domestic and international efforts to prevent, protect against, and respond to threats to health.

4.sec=Termination of the {_Agreement} shall not affect responsibilities to protect privacy concerning data shared under an {_Activity}, to protect information received from the other {_Party} under Article {Activity.Responsibility-Common.Xnum}(c), the assignment of intellectual property rights made pursuant to Article {IPR-ManagementPlan.Assign.Xref}, or benefits shared under Article {BenefitSharingPlan.Xnum}, while the {_Agreement} was in effect.

5.sec=Following termination, any pending activities will be terminated in an orderly way.

=[G/Z/ol-a/s5]

