1.Ti=INTEROP-1. THIRD PARTY AUTHENTICATION

1.sec=Entities MUST be capable of accepting external USERS authenticated by THIRD-PARTIES.

2.Ti=INTEROP-2. THIRD-PARTY CREDENTIALS

2.sec=Entities who issue credentials or assertions MUST issue them using content and methods that are capable of being consumed for multiple purposes and multiple recipients.

3.Ti=INTEROP-3. STANDARDIZED CREDENTIALS

3.sec=Entities that issue credentials or assertions MUST issue them in a format that conforms to public open STANDARDS listed in the IDESG Standards Registry, or if that Registry does not include feasible options, then to non-proprietary specifications listed in the IDESG Standards Inventory.

4.Ti=INTEROP-4. STANDARDIZED DATA EXCHANGES

4.sec=Entities that conduct digital identity management functions MUST use systems and processes to communicate and exchange identity-related data that conform to public open STANDARDS.

5.Ti=INTEROP-5. DOCUMENTED PROCESSES

5.sec=Entities MUST employ documented business policies and processes in conducting their digital identity management functions, including internally and in transactions between entities.

6.Ti=INTEROP-6. THIRD-PARTY COMPLIANCE

6.sec=Entities that act as THIRD-PARTY service providers for another entity, in conducting digital identity management functions, must comply with each of the applicable IDESG Baseline Requirements that apply to that other entity and those relevant functions.

7.Ti=INTEROP-7. USER REDRESS

7.sec=Entities MUST provide effective mechanisms for redress of complaints or problems arising from identity transactions or the, failure of the entity to comply with the IDESG Baseline Requirements. These mechanisms MUST be easy for USERS to find and access.

8.Ti=INTEROP-8. ACCOUNTABILITY

8.sec=Entities MUST be accountable for conformance to the IDESG Baseline Requirements, by providing mechanisms for auditing, validation, and verification.

=[Z/ol-none/8]