Ti=Movement

1.sec=Now, there are those who would prefer I hadn't said all of that. Some oppose any form of privacy legislation. Others will endorse reform in public, and then resist and undermine it behind closed doors.

2.sec=They may say to you, "Our companies will never achieve technology's true potential if they are constrained with privacy regulation." But this notion isn't just wrong, it is destructive.

3.sec=Technology's potential is, and always must be, rooted in the faith people have in it, in the optimism and creativity that it stirs in the hearts of individuals, in its promise and capacity to make the world a better place.

4.sec=It's time to face facts. We will never achieve technology's true potential without the full faith and confidence of the people who use it.

5.sec=At Apple, respect for privacy — and a healthy suspicion of authority — have always been in our bloodstream. Our first computers were built by misfits, tinkerers and rebels — not in a laboratory or a board room, but in a suburban garage. We introduced the Macintosh with a famous TV ad channeling George Orwell's 1984 — a warning of what can happen when technology becomes a tool of power and loses touch with humanity.

6.sec=And way back in 2010, Steve Jobs said in no uncertain terms: "Privacy means people know what they're signing up for, in plain language, and repeatedly."

7.sec=It's worth remembering the foresight and courage it took to make that statement. When we designed this device we knew it could put more personal data in your pocket than most of us keep in our homes. And there was enormous pressure on Steve and Apple to bend our values and to freely share this information. But we refused to compromise. In fact, we've only deepened our commitment in the decade since.

8.sec=From hardware breakthroughs that encrypt fingerprints and faces securely — and only — on your device, to simple and powerful notifications that make clear to every user precisely what they're sharing and when they are sharing it.

9.sec=We aren't absolutists, and we don't claim to have all the answers. Instead, we always try to return to that simple question: What kind of world do we want to live in?

10.sec=At every stage of the creative process, then and now, we engage in an open, honest and robust ethical debate about the products we make and the impact they will have. That's just a part of our culture.

11.sec=We don't do it because we have to. We do it because we ought to. The values behind our products are as important to us as any feature.

12.sec=We understand that the dangers are real — from cyber-criminals to rogue nation states. We're not willing to leave our users to fend for themselves. And we've shown we'll defend those principles when challenged.

13.sec=Those values — that commitment to thoughtful debate and transparency — they're only going to get more important. As progress speeds up, these things should continue to ground us and connect us, first and foremost, to the people we serve.

=[G/Z/ol-none/s13]
