
1.Ti=USABLE-1. USABILITY PRACTICES

1.sec=Entities conducting digital identity management functions MUST apply user-centric design, and industryaccepted appropriate usability guidelines and practices, to the communications, interfaces, policies, data transactions, and end-to-end processes they offer, and remediate significant defects identified by their usability assessment.

2.Ti=USABLE-2. USABILITY ASSESSMENT

2.sec=Entities MUST assess the usability of the communications, interfaces, policies, data transactions, and end-toend processes they conduct in digital identity management functions.

3.Ti=USABLE-3. PLAIN LANGUAGE

3.sec=Information presented to USERS in digital identity management functions MUST be in plain language that is clear and easy for a general audience or the transaction's identified target audience to understand.

4.Ti=USABLE-4. NAVIGATION

4.sec=All choices, pathways, interfaces, and offerings provided to USERS in digital identity management functions MUST be clearly identifiable by the USER.

5.Ti=USABLE-5. ACCESSIBILITY

5.sec=All digital identity management functions MUST make reasonable accommodations to be accessible to as many USERS as is feasible, and MUST comply with all applicable laws and regulations on accessibility.

6.Ti=USABLE-6. USABILITY FEEDBACK

6.sec=All communications, interfaces, policies, data transactions, and end-to-end processes provided in digital identity management functions MUST offer a mechanism to easily collect USERS' feedback on usability.

7.Ti=USABLE-7. USER REQUESTS

7.sec=Wherever public open STANDARDS or legal requirements exist for collecting user requests, entities conducting digital identity management functions MUST offer structured opportunities for USERS to document and express these requests, early in their interactions with those functions. Entities MUST provide a response to those user requests on a reasonably timely basis.

=[G/Z/ol-none/7]
