Ti=ARTICLE 6 - Officers

1.Ti=Titles of Officers

1.1.0.sec=Officers of the Cooperative shall be:

1.1.1.sec=A President,

1.1.2.sec=A Secretary,

1.1.3.sec=A Chief Financial Officer, and

1.1.4.sec=Any other Officer with a title and duties determined by the Board

1.1.=[G/Z/ol-a/s4]

1.2.sec=The President is the Chief Executive Officer of the Cooperative.

1.3.sec=One person may hold any number of offices, except the President and Secretary shall not be the same person.

1.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

[Explanatory Note: Section 12353(a) requires that a cooperative corporation have a Chairman of Board or President, a Secretary, and a Chief Financial Officer. One person can hold all three titles. The President (or chairperson) must be a Director elected by the Members. A cooperative corporation may create any other officer position, in addition to the three required positions. Officers need not be members of the co-op, they can be non-member employees.]

2.Ti=Duties of Officers

2.1.0.sec=Officers’ duties include those duties:

2.1.1.sec=Prescribed by law,

2.1.2.sec=Granted by these Bylaws, and/or

2.1.3.sec=Granted by resolutions of the Board.

2.1.=[G/Z/ol-a/s3]

2.2.sec=The Secretary must ensure that the Cooperatives’ records and reports are properly kept and filed.

2.3.sec=The President shall take on the duties of the Secretary if the Secretary is unable or unwilling to do so.

2.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

[Explanatory Note: These provisions are governed by Code Section 12353(a).]

3.Ti=Nomination and Election of Officers

3.1.sec=Any Member can nominate any Member, including himself/herself, for any office. Nominations shall take place at the Annual Member Meeting and at the preceding regular meeting.

3.2.sec=Officers shall then be elected at the Annual Member Meeting by written ballot, to serve one-year terms. The candidate receiving the highest number of votes for an office shall be elected.

3.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

[Explanatory Note:  The nomination and election of Officers is governed by Code Sections 12353(b).] 

4.Ti=Resignation or Removal of Officers

4.1.sec=Officers can be removed by a vote of the Board.

4.2.sec=Any Officer may resign at any time with written notice to the Cooperative.

4.3.sec=Vacancies shall be filled at the next Board meeting.

4.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

[Explanatory note: See Code Sections 12364(c) (resignation) and 12362(a)(1) (removal).  Vacancies are to be filled [at the next meeting of the Board]. See Code Section 12364(a).]

=[G/Z/ol/4]
