Ti=INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY.

ReportInvention.Ti=Reporting of Inventions.

ReportInvention.sec={_Employee} shall promptly disclose to {_Company} all computer software programs, other works of authorship, formulas, processes, compositions of matter, databases, mask works,  improvements, logos, symbols, designs, and other inventions that {_Employee} makes, conceives, reduces to practice, or creates, either alone or jointly with others, during the period of his/her employment with {_Company} (collectively, “{DefT.Inventions}”), whether or not in the course of employment and whether or not such {_Inventions} are patentable, copyrightable, protectable as trade secrets, or otherwise subject to intellectual property protection.

ReportInvention.=[G/Z/Base]

CompanyOwnership.Ti={_Company} Ownership of Work Product.

CompanyOwnership.0.sec=An {_Invention} will be considered “{DefT.Work_Product}” and will be {_Company}’s sole property if it fits any of the following three criteria: (1) it is developed using equipment, supplies, facilities, or trade secrets of {_Company}; (2) it results from {_Employee}’s work for {_Company}; or (3) it relates to {_Company}’s business or its current or anticipated research and development.

CompanyOwnership.1.Ti=Work-for-Hire.

CompanyOwnership.1.sec=To the extent permissible under applicable law, {_Work_Product} will be considered work made for hire pursuant to the U.S. Copyright Act, 17 U.S.C. §§ 101 et seq., and any foreign equivalent thereof.

CompanyOwnership.2.Ti=Assignment.

CompanyOwnership.2.0.sec=To the extent, if any, that {_Company} does not own full right, title and interest in and to the {_Work_Product} pursuant to Subsection {CompanyOwnership.1.Xnum} above, {_Employee} hereby assigns to {_Company} all of his or her ownership, right, title, and interest in and to all {_Work_Product}, including, without limitation: 

CompanyOwnership.2.1.sec=all copyrights, patents, rights in mask works, trademarks, trade secrets, and other intellectual property rights and all other rights that may hereafter be vested relating to the {_Work_Product}, arising under U.S. or any other law, together with all national, foreign, state, provincial, and common law registrations, applications for registration, and renewals and extensions thereof;

CompanyOwnership.2.2.sec=all goodwill associated with {_Work_Product}; and

CompanyOwnership.2.3.sec=all benefits, privileges, causes of action, and remedies relating to any of the foregoing, whether before or hereafter accrued (including without limitation the exclusive rights to apply for such registrations, renewals, and/or extensions, to sue for all past infringements or violations of any of the foregoing, and to settle and retain proceeds from any such actions). 

CompanyOwnership.2.=[G/Z/ol-i/s3]

CompanyOwnership.=[G/Z/ol-a/2]

BackupLicense.Ti=Backup License.

BackupLicense.sec=To the extent, if any, that this Article {Xnum} does not provide {_Company} with full ownership, right, title, and interest in and to the {_Work_Product}, {_Employee} hereby grants {_Company} a perpetual, irrevocable, fully paid, royalty-free, worldwide license to reproduce, create derivative works from, distribute, publicly display, publicly perform, use, make, have made, offer for sale, sell or otherwise dispose of, and import the {_Work_Product}, with the right to sublicense each and every such right. Exercise of {_Company}’s rights pursuant to this Section {BackupLicense.Xnum} does not excuse any breach of {_Employee}’s obligations pursuant to Section {CompanyOwnership.Xnum} above.

BackupLicense.=[G/Z/Base]

PriorInvention.Ti=Prior Inventions.

PriorInvention.sec={_Employee} represents that Attachment A attached to this {_Agreement} is a list of all {_Employee}’s {_Inventions} prior to the {_Effective_Date} which {_Employee} has not separately assigned to {_Company} (collectively “{DefT.Prior_Inventions}”), and that if Attachment A is blank or not included, there are no {_Prior_Inventions}. {_Employee} shall not incorporate any {_Prior_Invention} into the {_Work_Product} or otherwise use any {_Prior_Invention} in his/her work for {_Company} without {_Company}’s prior written consent.

PriorInvention.=[G/Z/Base]

MoralRight.Ti=Moral Rights.

MoralRight.sec=In addition to the foregoing transfers and allocations of rights, {_Employee} hereby irrevocably transfers and assigns to {_Company} any and all “moral rights” {_Employee} may have in or with respect to the {_Work_Product}. {_Employee} also hereby forever waives and agrees that he/she shall never, even after termination of employment with {_Company}, assert any moral rights with respect to the {_Work_Product}. “Moral rights” include any rights to claim authorship of or credit on a work of authorship, to object to or prevent the modification or destruction of a work of authorship, or to withdraw from circulation or control the publication or distribution of a work of authorship, and any similar right, existing under judicial or statutory law of any country or subdivision of a country, or under any treaty, regardless of whether or not such right is described as a “moral right.”

MoralRight.=[G/Z/Base]

FurtherAssistance.Ti=Further Assistance.

FurtherAssistance.sec={_Employee} shall help {_Company} obtain and enforce patents, copyrights, rights in mask works, trade secret rights, and other legal protections for the {_Work_Product} in any and all jurisdictions throughout the world. {_Employee} shall execute any documents {_Company} reasonably requests for use in obtaining or enforcing such rights and protections. To the extent that such assistance occurs after {_Employee}’s leaves employment with {_Company}, {_Company} shall compensate {_Employee} at a reasonable rate for time and expenses spent at {_Company}’s request pursuant to this Section {FurtherAssistance.Xnum}. {_Employee} hereby appoints {_Company} or its designated representative as {_Employee}’s attorney-in-fact to execute documents on {_Employee}’s behalf for the purposes set forth in this Section {FurtherAssistance.Xnum}.

FurtherAssistance.=[G/Z/Base]

StatutoryException.Ti=Exception to Assignments.

StatutoryException.sec={_Employee} is on notice and understands that the provisions of this {_Agreement} requiring assignment of inventions to {_Company} do not apply to any invention which qualifies fully under the provisions of California Labor Code Section 2870 (attached hereto as Attachment B). {_Employee} shall advise {_Company} promptly in writing of any {_Inventions} he/she believes meet the criteria of California Labor Code Section 2870.

StatutoryException.=[G/Z/Base]

sec=<ol><li>{ReportInvention.Sec}</li><li>{CompanyOwnership.Sec}</li><li>{BackupLicense.Sec}</li><li>{PriorInvention.Sec}</li><li>{MoralRight.Sec}</li><li>{FurtherAssistance.Sec}</li><li>{StatutoryException.Sec}</li></ol>

=[G/Z/Base]

ReportInvention.Xnum={Xnum}.<a class='xref' href='{!!!}ReportInvention.Sec'>1</a>

CompanyOwnership.Xnum={Xnum}.<a class='xref' href='{!!!}CompanyOwnership.Sec'>2</a>

CompanyOwnership.1.Xnum={CompanyOwnership.Xnum}<a class='xref' href='{!!!}CompanyOwnership.1.Sec'>(a)</a>

BackupLicense.Xnum={Xnum}.<a class='xref' href='{!!!}BackupLicense.Sec'>3</a>

PriorInvention.Xnum={Xnum}.<a class='xref' href='{!!!}PriorInvention.Sec'>4</a>

MoralRight.Xnum={Xnum}.<a class='xref' href='{!!!}MoralRight.Sec'>5</a>

FurtherAssistance.Xnum={Xnum}.<a class='xref' href='{!!!}FurtherAssistance.Sec'>6</a>

StatutoryException.Xnum={Xnum}.<a class='xref' href='{!!!}StatutoryException.Sec'>7</a>

!!!=#

BackupLicense.!!!={!!!}BackupLicense.

PriorInvention.!!!={!!!}PriorInvention.

MoralRight.!!!={!!!}MoralRight.

FurtherAssistance.!!!={!!!}FurtherAssistance.

StatutoryException.!!!={!!!}StatutoryException.
