Stage 2: Once Firms Have Cleared Conflicts 

Note to User:
You can proceed to issue your RFP to all firms that have confirmed to your satisfaction that they have cleared conflicts. You may submit any questions you have regarding the RFP to the POC by the date specified in the RFP schedule. All such questions must be in writing/submitted to the POC via the designated email address. Company is not required to respond to any query submitted but, if Company does reply, may make your query as well as Company’s answer to it available to all bidders.

RFP Overview

Ti=Subject Line: RFP from {Company.Name.Full} in relation to {Matter.Description.Short.a/an}

1.0.sec={Company.Name.Full} is seeking proposals for {Matter.WorkDescription.Short.cl}

[High level description of the work to be done]. 

1.1.sec=A more detailed description of the the work that we require to be done is set out {below/attached}

below=below<ul><li>{Matter.WorkDescription.Long.sec}</ul>

attached=?? complete this by making a field "attached=attached" and adding documents as 00.sec={The other documents}??

[Describe below and attach].

1.2.sec=We have also attached the following documents to assist you.  {Matter.SupportingDocuments.sec}

[attach any relevant background or other documents that will assist the law firm in understanding the scope of their scope of work].

1.3.sec={Company.Name.Full}'s objective in relation to this this work is as follows: {Matter.Objectives.sec}

[Clearly articulate your company's objective]. 

1.4.sec=You have been invited by {Company.Name.Full} to submit a proposal in response to this RFP.

1.=[G/Z/ol/s4]

1.00.sec=If you have any questions, please direct your questions to the following email {Company.Contact.Email}. Any unauthorized contact with other members of our organization in relation to this RFP may disqualify you from the process.

2.0.sec=Contractual terms

2.1.sec={Company.Name.Full} reserves the right to accept or reject any and all proposals (whether received before or after the due date), to change or withdraw this RFP specification, to waive any formalities and/or discontinue this RFP process at any time.

2.2.sec=This RFP is not, and should not be construed as, an agreement to purchase goods or services from any Firm. Please note that {Company.Name.Full} will not be responsible for any costs associated with your preparation or submission of a reply to this RFP; indeed, you are solely responsible for all costs incurred in your preparation and presentation of a response.

2.3.sec={Company.Name.Full} looks forward to receiving confirmation of your firm’s intention to participate in this RFP and, in due course, your firm’s proposal in response to this RFP.

2.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

=[G/Z/ol/s2]