Ti=Staffing

1.Ti=General.

1.1.sec={Company.Name.Full} regards staffing as one of the most critical components of the success and cost-effectiveness of a matter.  We leverage analytics and other technologies to pinpoint misalignment with these {_Guidelines}.

1.2.0.sec=In general, {Company.Name.Full} requires outside legal partners to:

1.2.1.sec=Not bill for hours in excess of 8 hours per day, without pre-approval.

1.2.2.sec=Obtain the Lead {Company.Name.Full} Attorney's approval for staffing prior to commencing any engagement or making any changes in staffing once an engagement has begun.

1.2.3.sec=Should the assigned lead attorney for a matter give notice of his/her intent to leave your firm, we ask that you notify the {Company.Name.Full} Lead Attorney no later than two days after the lead attorney gives notice of his/her intent to leave.

1.2.4.sec=Leverage {Company.Name.Full} in-house legal and business resources whenever it is reasonable and cost-effective to do so.

1.2.5.sec=Leverage {Company.Name.Full}’s preferred alternative legal service partners whenever it is reasonable and cost-effective to do so, but always subject to these terms and Section B specifically.

1.2.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s5]

1.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

2.Ti=Expertise.

2.sec=We expect you to work with the {Company.Name.Full} Lead Attorney in determining appropriate staffing (specifically team members and size) to manage our matters in a lean and efficient manner, staffing only as reasonably necessary, and permitting only core team members to attend meetings.  Team members must have the appropriate level of experience and expertise, and first year associates may not be staffed to our matters without our prior written approval.  We will not pay for staff members to learn substantive areas of law or to ramp up or familiarize themselves if they are replacing another staff member.

3.Ti=Diversity.

3.sec={Company.Name.Full} seeks to partner with those outside counsel that believe diversity in representation in all forms results in better outcomes. Creating an environment that emphasizes the professional and personal development of diverse attorneys and non-attorneys fosters a culture of inclusion, collaboration and stability.

4.Ti=Engaging Third Party Services. 

4.sec=We do not authorize you to retain any vendor or third-party service provider (including consultants, expert witnesses or local counsel) or enter into any agreement with any vendor or third-party service provider without our prior, written approval.  To request approval, you must provide the name of the vendor, the name and expertise/ credentials of individuals who will be providing the services as applicable, and a detailed budget (including rates, performance timelines and anticipated completion). We may elect to retain the vendor directly, or direct you to work with a {Company.Name.Full} preferred provider.  We can provide you with a list of our preferred providers.

5.Ti=Performance Reviews

5.sec={Company.Name.Full} will conduct regular evaluations on the firm, individual attorneys and other staff.  In addition to assessing the quality of service and compliance with {Company.Name.Full}’s {_Guidelines}, {Company.Name.Full} will consider accrual submissions, performance to budget, willingness to provide AFAs, staffing efficiency, rates, diversity of staff, and timely submission of invoices when we evaluate outside counsel for future use. Sharing performance information is critical to building and maintaining trusted relationships.  If at any time you have concerns or desire feedback, please reach out to Legal Operations.

6.Ti=Ownership and Disposition of Documents

6.sec=All work product created for or utilized in {Company.Name.Full} matters is owned solely by {Company.Name.Full} You will, when requested by {Company.Name.Full} promptly provide {Company.Name.Full} with copies of all legal pleadings, filings, memoranda, settlement agreements, communications, records, drafts, and other documents in electronic form at no cost to {Company.Name.Full} and in the form and manner requested. {Company.Name.Full} will not pay for the preparation of “enclosed please find” letters merely itemizing the requested attachments and you will not undertake to summarize or elaborate on the documents forwarded to {Company.Name.Full} unless this is requested by {Company.Name.Full}’s Lead Attorney. 

7.Ti=Media and Other Inquiries 

7.sec=Our outside counsel should never engage in public relation activities that identify {Company.Name.Full} as a client, or comment to the media, investors or others on {Company.Name.Full}-related matters, unless approved in writing in advance by {Company.Name.Full}.  Additionally, you may not use any {Company.Name.Full} logos, trademarks, or service marks in your marketing materials without prior written approval, subject to any restrictions and policies {Company.Name.Full} may require in its sole discretion.

8.Ti=Litigation Matter Requirements

8.sec=When working on litigation matters, please know that our litigation team may also impose additional policies and practices for litigation and eDiscovery matter management.

9.Ti=Patent Matter Requirements

9.sec=When working on patent prosecution, please know that our patent team may also impose additional policies and practices for matter management.

=[G/Z/ol-AA/9]
