Footnotes to NVCA_SPA_Form


<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn1" title="">[1]</a> If only one closing is contemplated, references to "Initial Closing," "each Closing," "such Closing" etc. should be modified.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn2" title="">[2]</a> Sometimes only a Certificate of Amendment is required.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn3" title="">[3]</a> If the Agreement is signed prior to the Closing, this provision gives the parties flexibility to change the closing date as contingencies arise. As a practical matter, however, the Agreement is usually signed on the date of the Closing. This means that, until the Closing, everyone has an opportunity to back out of the deal.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn4" title="">[4]</a> Note that the NVCA documents have been updated to provide for the possibility of uncertificated shares as well; alternative language is provided where applicable in all of the model documents.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn5" title="">[5]</a> If some or all of the Purchasers will be converting previously issued notes to Shares, consider paying the interest in cash, if the terms of the notes permit this, to avoid last-minute recomputations if the closing is delayed. Note that cancellation of interest in return for stock may be a taxable event in the amount of the interest cancelled. Accordingly, some of the Purchasers may require payment of interest in cash to avoid imputation of income without the corresponding payment of cash to pay the tax.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn6" title="">[6]</a> The Company will often try to negotiate a "cushion" in the negotiated limit of the number of preferred shares in order to permit it to issue additional shares of preferred stock in transactions outside the financing, <em>e.g.</em>, warrants for preferred stock issued in connection with an equipment financing. The language "on the same terms and conditions as those contained in {this_Agreement}" is flexible enough to permit this. If the investors want to limit the number of preferred shares to be issued to those preferred shares issued in the financing, the language "pursuant to {this_Agreement}" should be substituted.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn7" title="">[7]</a> The Company may want to limit this approval right to the larger Purchasers. As an alternative, the Agreement may specify that Additional Purchasers must be approved by the Board of Directors, including the directors elected by the Series A Preferred Stockholders.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn8" title="">[8]</a> Consider whether the obligations of each Purchaser at a Milestone Closing are conditioned on (i) the representations and warranties remaining true (or materially so) as of such Milestone Closing, (ii) each other Purchaser purchasing shares at the Milestone Closing (<em>i.e.</em>, if one Purchaser breaches then no others are obligated), and (iii) any other conditions. In a tranched milestone funding, investors should confirm with their accountants prior to the first closing that the initial and later tranches will not be treated as separate instruments for purposes of ASC 480 based on the specific structure of the transaction.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn9" title="">[9]</a> See Model Indemnification Agreement for discussion of the issue of expanding coverage to include not just VC designee director, but also the fund(s) making the investment.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn10" title="">[10]</a> In Series A Preferred Stock financings, the Investors' Rights Agreement will normally be signed by all the Series A Purchasers. In subsequent financing rounds, the standard practice is to amend and restate the Investor Rights Agreement, which will then be signed by the Company as well as the subsequent and prior round purchasers.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn11" title="">[11]</a> In a Series A round at a high-tech start-up, it is likely that the only key employees in addition to management, if any, are those who are responsible for developing the Company's key intellectual property assets. It may be simpler for these early-stage companies to list the Key Employees by name. In later rounds, it may be appropriate to include others, <em>e.g.</em>, important salespeople or consultants and define Key Employees by function (<em>e.g.</em>, division director).

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn12" title="">[12]</a> An important point of negotiation is often whether the Company will represent that a given fact (a) is true or (b) is true to the Company's knowledge. Alternative (a) requires the Company to bear the entire risk of the truth or falsity of the represented fact, regardless whether the Company knew (or could have known) at the time of the representation whether or not the fact was true. Alternative (b) is preferable from the Company's standpoint, since it holds the Company responsible only for facts of which it is actually aware.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn13" title="">[13]</a> Since the prospects of high-tech start-up companies are by definition highly uncertain, the Company may resist the inclusion of the word "prospects" on the grounds that investors in a Series A financing are in the business of shouldering that risk.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn14" title="">[14]</a> The purpose of the Company's representations is primarily to create a mechanism to ensure full disclosure about the Company's organization, financial condition and business to the investors. The Company is required to list any deviations from the representations on a Disclosure Schedule, the preparation and review of which drives the due diligence process on both sides of the deal. For subsequent closings, changes to the Disclosure Schedule are sometimes simply referenced on the Compliance Certificate. The introductory paragraph to this <u>Section </u><u>2</u> may be modified to permit an update to the Disclosure Schedule that would be reasonably acceptable to each of the Purchasers. If this modification is made, a closing condition should be added to indicate that the updated Disclosure Schedule will be delivered and that each of the Purchasers may refuse to close if the updated Disclosure Schedule is reasonably unacceptable to that Purchaser. If there is to be a Milestone Closing, specific representations and warranties to be true as of the Milestone Closing date may need to be negotiated. Some practitioners prefer to deliver the Disclosure Schedule separately, instead of as an exhibit to the Stock Purchase Agreement, so that the Disclosure Schedule will not have to be publicly filed in the event the Stock Purchase Agreement is filed as an exhibit to a public offering registration statement.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn15" title="">[15]</a> The purpose of this representation is to ensure that basic corporate maintenance has been properly carried out by the Company. Note that the Company is required to disclose failure to qualify in other jurisdictions where it does business only if failure to do so could have a "Material Adverse Effect"; the purpose of this language is to eliminate the time and expense of doing a state-by-state analysis to determine whether the Company should technically be qualified. If the Company has material connections to states in which it is not qualified, these states must be investigated by counsel to determine whether qualification is necessary and whether there are potential adverse effects of having failed to qualify.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn16" title="">[16]</a> <u>Subsection </u><u>2</u> describes the Company's capital structure and can be stated either immediately prior to or upon the Initial Closing of the financing. This description details any outstanding rights or privileges with respect to the Company's securities. In later round financings, this description would also list any co-sale rights and rights of first refusal granted to investors in prior rounds. In later round financings, consider adding representations that there have been no conversions of previously-issued preferred stock to common stock, the number of shares that would be outstanding on an as-converted-to-common stock basis and the current conversion ratios of each series of preferred stock.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn17" title="">[17]</a> Note that the amendments to Rule 506 effective September 23, 2013 added additional requirements for offerings relying on the Rule 506 safe harbor, namely, the absence of "bad actors" affiliated with the issuer and, for offerings involving general solicitation under Rule 506(c), accredited investor certification. Accordingly, investors may wish to conduct additional due diligence on these matters with respect to offerings consummated after September 23, 2013

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn18" title="">[18]</a> Some practitioners prefer to delete this representation, provided the capitalization table is a separate document.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn19" title="">[19]</a> It should be noted that the consensus among the NVCA drafting group was that the 409A issues are better dealt with as a diligence item, rather than a company rep.   Nevertheless, this rep is included here because it is in any case important that the issue be surfaced as part of the financing, to ensure that the company is mindful of the obligations and potential penalties imposed by 409A as it makes future equity grants. Inserting the rep in the first draft, as a discussion item, is one way to ensure that the issue is not neglected.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn20" title="">[20]</a> The purpose of this representation is to require the Company to fully disclose its structure, including other corporations, if any, that it controls. If the Company does have subsidiaries, you should (i) add to <u>Subsection </u><u>2.2(f)</u> a representation with respect to the subsidiaries of the Company modeled after <u>Subsection </u><u>0</u> regarding the organization, good standing and qualification of each such subsidiary, and (ii) add a reference to subsidiaries where appropriate in <u>Section </u><u>2</u>. Some formulations include subsidiaries in the definition of the Company, this approach works if careful attention is given to representations where the effect of such inclusion requires additional language (for example, the representation in <u>Subsection </u><u>2</u> would require either the exclusion of subsidiaries or a separate paragraph regarding the capitalization of subsidiaries).

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn21" title="">[21]</a> In certain jurisdictions, ancillary agreements executed in connection with the financing, such as noncompetition provisions or voting agreements, may be subject to some question regarding their enforceability, and the representation should be modified accordingly.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn22" title="">[22]</a> The representations in <u>Subsections </u><u>2.3</u> and <u>2.4</u> are intended to ensure that the Company has taken all steps necessary to issue the preferred stock in accordance with applicable corporate law. This means that, before the closing, the Company must (A) obtain the requisite stockholder and board approvals to amend the Certificate of Incorporation and issue the stock; (B) file the Restated Certificate; and (C) obtain any other stockholder consents or waivers required pursuant to the Restated Certificate, Bylaws, and existing agreements with securityholders (most importantly, waivers to any existing rights of first offer or refusal). <u>Subsection </u><u>2.4</u> also requires the Company to disclose any restrictions on transfer other than those contained in the Transaction Agreements (such as any contained in the Restated Certificate and Bylaws, or any preemptive rights contained in agreements with other securityholders).

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn23" title="">[23]</a> Even if the Company is not relying on Rule 506 for the offering under {this_Agreement}, this representation is included so that investors can determine whether the Company will be entitled to rely on Rule 506 in future offerings by the Company.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn24" title="">[24]</a> The litigation representation will often be unqualified in Series A financings. The bracketed materiality qualifiers are more common in later rounds of financings. In subsequent rounds it is no longer appropriate to have the Company make representations regarding directors (as opposed to employees), since directors will include investor representatives.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn25" title="">[25]</a> It may be appropriate to include a knowledge qualifier as to investigations since it would be difficult for the Company to know of an investigation unless it had been notified.  Some investors nevertheless feel the risk is appropriately borne by the Company.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn26" title="">[26]</a> <u>Subsection</u> <u>2.8</u> gives the Purchasers assurances that the Company has the intellectual property rights necessary to conduct its business, or has disclosed its need to acquire further rights.  Although Purchasers prefer an unqualified representation, this provision is often heavily negotiated, and may be impossible for the Company to make with certainty for a product in a very early stage of development.  Under a common compromise, the Company provides an unqualified representation with respect to everything but patents, on the theory that potential patent conflicts cannot always be uncovered even after reasonable investigation, and that patent conflicts therefore represent an unknown risk that is fairly borne by both parties.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn27" title="">[27]</a> If you represent the Company, you may seek to use a more specific list of items (a subset of the broader definition of Company Intellectual Property) to be set forth on the Disclosure Schedule: "patents, patent applications, trademarks, trademark applications, service marks, service mark applications, tradenames, copyrights, and licenses to and under any of the foregoing."

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn28" title="">[28]</a> This representation regarding non-use of open source software is intended to elicit disclosure of publicly available, third-party source code that the Company has incorporated, or intends to incorporate, into its products.  In most cases, the Purchasers should be concerned primarily about use of third-party source code distributed under a license that requires the Company to disclose and distribute its own source code, that grants licensees rights under the Company's patents, or that contains other provisions that relinquish or may compromise the Company's intellectual property rights or commercial prospects.  Much publicly available source code is distributed under licenses that permit it to be freely used and redistributed without imposing onerous obligations upon those that use it to develop their own software.  Note also that the General Public License ("<strong>GPL</strong>") and other so-called "viral" open source licenses impose potentially onerous obligations upon licensees only if code distributed under them is incorporated into a product that is actually released to the general public.  Some proprietary software companies experiment with code distributed under the GPL during the development process with no intention of retaining GPL code in the products ultimately released to their customers.  (This experimentation typically is done in a separate "branch" of the source code of a product in development.)  The Company may wish to consider narrowing this representation to include use of third-party source code distributed under any license that imposes specified obligations upon the Company, and perhaps then only if the third party source code has been included in a product that the Company has released.  An example of a reduced-disclosure open source representation is as follows: "The Company has not embedded, used or distributed any open source, copyleft or community source code (including but not limited to any libraries or code, software, technologies or other materials that are licensed or distributed under any General Public License, Lesser General Public License or similar license arrangement or other distribution model described by the Open Source Initiative at www.opensource.org, collectively <strong>"Open Source Software"</strong>) in connection with any of its products or services that are generally available or in development in any manner that would materially restrict the ability of the Company to protect its proprietary interests in any such product or service or in any manner that requires, or purports to require (i) any Company IP (other than the Open Source Software itself) be disclosed or distributed in source code form or be licensed for the purpose of making derivative works; (ii) any restriction on the consideration to be charged for the distribution of any Company IP; (iii) the creation of any obligation for the Company with respect to Company IP owned by the Company, or the grant to any third party of any rights or immunities under Company IP owned by the Company; or (iv) any other limitation, restriction or condition on the right of the Company with respect to its use or distribution of any Company IP."

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn29" title="">[29]</a> <u>Subsections </u><u>2.7</u> and 2.10<u>2.7</u> require the Company to disclose material contracts as well as other agreements or arrangements that might be important from a due diligence standpoint regardless of dollar amount (such as intellectual property licenses or a proposed acquisition of the Company). The disclosure thresholds are negotiable.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn30" title="">[30]</a> This representation is not standard, but is sometimes requested by investors concerned that the Company might be considering a business combination transaction.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn31" title="">[31]</a> This representation requires disclosure of situations which could create a conflict of interest.  This is an item of particular concern in the first round of venture capital financing, since loans among the Company and its founders and their families (which may not be well documented) are especially common prior to the first infusion of outside capital.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn32" title="">[32]</a> The bracketed portion of this sentence may be a broader representation than the Company is comfortable giving.  In addition, it is appropriate to include directors throughout this section only at the first financing round.  In subsequent rounds the directors will include investor representatives, and it should not be incumbent on the Company to make disclosures as to them. 

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn33" title="">[33]</a> Prior registration rights may conflict with those currently being negotiated among the investors and the Company. Therefore, any such rights must be carefully reviewed and any conflicts resolved. It is common to have any previous registration rights agreement amended to include the new investors, or replaced by a new agreement including the old and new investors and clarifying their rights relative to each other as well as the Company. It is preferable to have all registration rights relating to the Company's securities set forth in one document.  Having several different sets of rights outstanding can be a significant (and confusing) complication when the Company goes public.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn34" title="">[34]</a> For early stage companies without financial statements, it may be appropriate to have an alternative provision, such as the following:

<u>Material Liabilities</u>.=  The Company has no liability or obligation, absolute or contingent (individually or in the aggregate), except (i) obligations and liabilities incurred after the date of incorporation in the ordinary course of business that are not material, individually or in the aggregate, and (ii) obligations under contracts made in the ordinary course of business that would not be required to be reflected in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn35" title="">[35]</a> The purpose of this representation is to "bring down" the financial statements from the period covered thereby. Therefore, the blank in <u>Subsection </u><u>2.11</u> should be filled with the last date covered by the financial statements provided to the investors, and any of the changes listed in this section must be disclosed on the Disclosure Schedule. While the itemization in this section serves as a useful due diligence checklist, this section can be replaced by a much shorter section reading simply, "[To the Company's knowledge], since [______,] there have been no events or circumstances of any kind that have had or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect."

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn36" title="">[36]</a> Many practitioners prefer not to list employee compensation in the Disclosure Schedule, particularly if employees are participating in the round.  Even if there is no employee participation, however, employee compensation is a sensitive matter for many companies, and there is always a risk of the Disclosure Schedule inadvertently winding up in the wrong hands.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn37" title="">[37]</a> See footnote 31 – same point as to investor directors.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn38" title="">[38]</a> The investors may negotiate life insurance coverage in favor of the Company for certain founders or other key employees. If such coverage is in effect prior to the closing, it may be appropriate to add to this representation a statement of the covered individuals and amount of coverage for each.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn39" title="">[39]</a> This representation is fairly standard in West Coast venture financing transactions; it is much less common in financings originating on the East Coast.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn40" title="">[40]</a>    This representation is appropriate if there are foreign investors (<em>i.e.</em>, nonresident aliens) involved in the financing, since they are subject to the Foreign Investment Real Property Tax Act of 1980 ("<strong>FIRPTA</strong>"). Under FIRPTA, a transfer of an interest in a U.S. Real Property Holding Corporation (a "<strong>USRPHC</strong>") by a foreign investor is subject to tax withholding, notwithstanding the general rule that sales of stock by foreigners are not subject to U.S. taxation. A corporation is USRPHC if more than fifty percent (50%) of its assets consist of U.S. real property. While very few, if any, venture capital investors are USRPHCs, it is customary to provide this representation in order to ensure that any foreign investors will not be subject to tax withholding. Regardless of FIRPTA, if a foreign person or entity is, directly or indirectly, acquiring a ten percent (10%) or greater voting interest in the Company, it must file Form BE-13 with the U.S. Department of Commerce unless an exemption applies.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn41" title="">[41]</a> Section 1202 of the Internal Revenue Code provides for a fifty percent (50%) exclusion (subject to certain limitations) from taxable income of gains recognized on the disposition of certain stock in qualifying corporations that has been held for at least five years. Although investors may ask for such a representation, companies may resist on the theory that the analysis regarding current compliance is complex, and that many elements of the test are outside the Company's control.  In any event, compliance with numerous other requirements during the time the investor holds the stock is needed for the investor to qualify for the benefits of Section 1202.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn42" title="">[42]</a> There is no consensus position on what should be included in the "Disclosure" representation.  Purchasers will generally try to obtain an unqualified representation that none of the written information and business plan information provided to them by the Company contains a material misstatement or a materially misleading omission.  The Company will generally try to resist such a broad representation, on the basis that a 10b-5 type representation, commonly found in an IPO prospectus, is inappropriate for a private financing in which a prospectus-type due diligence process has not occurred.  The language shown represents a compromise position.  It is important to note that the investors' right of recovery for a breach of this rep may be broader than under Rule SEC 10b-5, because in order to prevail in a Rule 10b-5 securities fraud action, the purchaser must establish that the seller acted with scienter.  That is, a purely innocent misrepresentation normally does not give rise to civil liability under 10b-5.   Another issue for a Series A investor to consider is the relative utility of this rep to the Series A investor at this stage, versus the risk of giving such a broad rep to investors in later rounds (who, in a worst case, may be looking for a rep on which to "hang their hat" if they decide they want out of the investment).

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn43" title="">[43]</a> The Small Business Concern representation is only necessary if one or more Purchasers is a SBIC.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn44" title="">[44]</a> Founders' representations are controversial and may elicit significant resistance as they are found in a minority of venture deals.  They are more likely to appear if Founders are receiving liquidity from the transaction, or if there is heightened concern over intellectual property (<em>e.g.</em>, the Company is a spin-out from an academic institution or the Founder was formerly with another company whose business could be deemed competitive with the Company), or in international deals.  Founders' representations are even less common in subsequent rounds, where risk is viewed as significantly diminished and fairly shared by the investors, rather than being disproportionately borne by the Founders.  A sample set of Founders Representations is attached as an Addendum at the end of this Model Stock Purchase Agreement.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn45" title="">[45]</a> The main purpose of the Purchasers' representations and warranties in <u>Section </u>0 are to ensure that the investors meet the criteria for private placement exceptions under applicable state and federal securities laws.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn46" title="">[46]</a> Occasionally, a venture capital fund will allow its employees and principals to co-invest through a special entity as a nominee.  Assuming these employees and principals meet the accreditation or sophistication standards necessary for the private placement exemption being relied on, and assuming the special purpose entity is not formed solely for the purpose of this investment, the language of this provision can be tailored to carve out that special entity.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn47" title="">[47]</a> Include the bracketed language if the private placement exemption is based on the safe harbor in Rule 155(c) under the Securities Act for private offerings following an abandoned public offering.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn48" title="">[48]</a> In September 2012 and pursuant to the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (the "<strong>JOBS Act</strong>"), the SEC proposed new rules amending Rule 506 of Regulation D and Rule 144A which would provide that the Rule 502(c) prohibition against general solicitation and general advertising would not apply to offers and sales of securities made pursuant to Rule 506 where all purchasers of the securities are accredited investors.  Until these rules are finalized, any disclosures made under Section 3.9 in reliance on the JOBS Act should be carefully scrutinized by counsel.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn49" title="">[49]</a> This provision is intended to protect the lead investor from claims of reliance by other investors.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn50" title="">[50]</a> This eliminates any issues resulting from possible miscalculation of the amount owed to investor noteholders (miscalculations that can result from, for example, application of conversion discounts).

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn51" title="">[51]</a> <u>Section 4</u> contains the conditions which the Company must satisfy (or which must be waived) prior to closing in order to trigger the investors' obligation to purchase the shares; <u>Section 4</u> contains the conditions the investors must satisfy to trigger the Company's obligation to sell the shares. With respect to each side, the essential requirements are (A) that all of the representations and warranties each makes in the Agreement are still true at the closing, and (B) that the other parties have entered into the other Transaction Agreements.  If (as is typically the case) the Agreement contemplates a simultaneous signing and closing, consider deleting <u>Subsections </u><u>4.1</u> – <u>4.4</u>,<u> 4.6</u>,<u> 4.13, 4.14</u> and <u>4.17</u> (which, for the most part, can be covered by the representations in <u>Section </u><u>2</u>), and recasting the subsections of <u>Section 4</u> as closing deliveries.  If the Agreement contemplates multiple closings, attention should be given to determining what conditions must be satisfied in order to trigger the investors' obligations to purchase shares at subsequent closings.

xx=<u>Subsections 4.3</u> and <u>4.5</u> specifically require the Company to deliver at the Closing a Compliance Certificate and opinion of Company Counsel.  In addition, it is generally necessary to deliver at the Closing (A) a Secretary's certificate certifying the Company's bylaws, board resolutions approving the transaction, and stockholder resolutions approving the Restated Certificate, (B) good standing certificates from the Secretary of State, (C) the certified Restated Certificate, and (D) waivers of any rights of first refusal triggered by the financing. These documents are therefore listed as "Closing Documents" on transaction checklists even though they are not specifically required to be delivered by the Agreement and are technically covered by the Compliance Certificate and the opinion of the Company's counsel.  If the transaction is structured as a simultaneous signing and closing, the closing conditions serve as a convenient closing checklist, but are significantly diminished in importance.

xx=If there are to be subsequent closings, consider whether all of the closing conditions applicable to the Initial Closing should be applicable to the subsequent closing.  It may be appropriate to include a separate, more limited set of closing conditions for a subsequent closing. 

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn52" title="">[52]</a> If this section is used, the Company must take the actions necessary to elect the agreed-upon Board of Directors.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn53" title="">[53]</a> Sometimes the term sheet will specify that a minimum number of Shares must be sold at the Initial Closing.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn54" title="">[54]</a> See explanatory commentary in introduction to model Management Rights Letter.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn55" title="">[55]</a> Usually only necessary at a later round of financing, when there are existing preemptive rights holders.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn56" title="">[56]</a> Sometimes a limited survival period is negotiated.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn57" title="">[57]</a> Some practitioners may select Delaware law as it has historically been the richest source for corporation law precedent.  Other practitioners will prefer to choose the (non-Delaware) jurisdiction in which they are admitted to practice, if for no other reason than not having to retain Delaware counsel in the event they are called upon to give an enforceability opinion.  In <em>Abry Partners V v. F&W Acquisition LLC, Case No. C.A. 1756-N (Del Ch. Ct. Feb. 14, 2006)</em>, the Delaware Chancery Court stated that it would respect a Delaware choice of law provision so long as Delaware law has a material relationship to the transaction – which will very often be the case in venture financings (<em>e.g.</em>, parties are Delaware corporation, LLPs, or LLCs).  However, it should be noted that if an action is brought in a jurisdiction other than the state whose governing law has been selected, that jurisdiction will apply its own choice of law principles in deciding whether or not to give effect to the governing law selected by the parties.  Further, under the internal affairs doctrine of the state whose law is chosen to govern the agreement, whether or not the parties so provide, the DGCL will apply to certain provisions (<em>e.g.</em>, voting of shares of stock).

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn58" title="">[58]</a> This provision may need to be modified to fit the facts of a particular transaction.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn59" title="">[59]</a> Typically, only the lead Purchaser is actually represented by counsel, with the other Purchasers relying on the lead Purchaser having conducted due diligence and hired legal counsel.  Occasionally, counsel will represent the Purchasers as a group, or one or more of the other Purchasers will have separate counsel, in which case this provision will need to be tailored accordingly.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn60" title="">[60]</a> This provision may need to be tailored if there are to be Milestone Closings to permit or prevent, as appropriate, a majority from waiving or changing the agreed-upon milestones and related conditions.  In addition, if Founder's representations are included, this provision may need to give the Founder protection against adverse amendments.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn61" title="">[61]</a> <u>Subsection </u><u>0</u> is to be used for transactions governed by California law that are not relying on NSMIA for a state securities law exemption.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn62" title="">[62]</a> In the prior version of the NVCA Model Documents it was noted that in 2009 Delaware enacted legislation permitting confidential arbitration of disputes before a sitting Delaware Chancery Court Chancellor so long as 1) at least one party is a Delaware business entity or has its principal place of business in Delaware; and 2) there is at least $1 million in controversy.  However, in August 2012 the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware held in <em>Delaware Coalition for Open Government v. Strine</em> <em>(D. Del. Aug. 30, 2012)</em> that such confidential arbitration violates the First Amendment's right of access to civil trials.  For so long as this decision stands (the State of Delaware has  appealed and a decision is pending), it seems imprudent to include a provision stipulating that disputes are to be arbitrated in the Delaware Court of Chancery.

<a href="#_ftnref" name="_ftn63" title="">[63]</a> Investors should consider whether cash is an acceptable remedy; the cash value of the shares is likely to be low, particularly if there has been a breach of a rep or warranty.  In addition, if the Investors require the surrender of shares rather than cash, they should also consider whether to include Preferred Stock, as well, if the Founder owns shares of Preferred Stock.  

  
