Ti=If you intend to submit an application as a partnership between two or more organizations, do you have a fully-executed Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between all of the parties? Select one.

1.prompt=Yes.

1.comment=Great. A fully-executed Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) detailing any binding arrangement between the parties is required as part of the Application. Read the Requirements Regarding any Proposed Collaboration before registering.

2.prompt=No.

2.comment=Organizations proposing to work together must demonstrate through a fully-executed Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) detailing any binding arrangement between the parties. Those organizations must agree upon a single eligible entity or organization that will serve as the Principle Organization and/or Grantee, if selected, that will maintain direction, control, and supervision of the project and management of all grant funds. The Principal Organization will be responsible for all reporting requirements. Any fully-executed MOU detailing any binding arrangement between the parties will be required as part of the Application. Read the Requirements Regarding Any Proposed Collaboration before registering.

3.prompt=Not Applicable (N/A): I do not intend to submit an application as a partnership.

3.comment=A single organization that is capable of receiving and managing a grant of $100 million (USD) over only a few years is eligible to apply. If such an organization has that capacity, there is no requirement to partner with other organizations.

1.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

2.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

3.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

=[G/Z/ol/s3]
