Ti=SLA REMEDIES

//=Common frame for Principles:

=[G/IACCM-ContractPrinciples-CmA/Z/Sec/0.md]

//=II. Definitions

Def.0.sec=The following definitions apply to these IACCM Contracting Principles:

Def.Liquidated_Damages.sec=“{_Liquidated_Damages}” means the sole and exclusive compensation provided by a Supplier to a Customer for the Supplier’s failure of a contractual service level agreement, generally in the form of an SLA credit.

Def.SLA.sec=“Service Level Agreement” or “{_SLA}” means the contractual quantitative standards set for service performance by the parties (e.g., response time, resolution time, uptime).

Def.SLA_Failure.sec=“Service Level Failure” or “{_SLA_Failure}” means the failure of Supplier to meet the {_SLA}s and for which {_Liquidated_Damages} may be due to Customer.

Def.Chronic_Service_Interruption.sec=“{_Chronic_Service_Interruption}” means repeated or persistent {_SLA_Failure}s, the occurrence of which is agreed by the parties to justify a remedy or remedies in addition to the award of {_SLA} credit(s), such as cancellation of the impacted Services without penalty or further obligations.

Def.secs={Def.Liquidated_Damages.sec}<li>{Def.SLA.sec}<li>{Def.SLA_Failure.sec}<li>{Def.Chronic_Service_Interruption.sec}

III. General Concepts

Concept.0.sec=The following concepts form the basis for the more detailed IACCM Contracting Principles that follow:

Concept.1.sec=While Suppliers intend to provide flawless Services, some services may experience problems over long periods of time, and Service Level Failures and other issues can occur over time, given the complex nature of technology services.

Concept.2.sec={_SLA} credit amounts are not intended to make a Customer whole, but rather should be developed by the parties as a way to incentivize Suppliers to identify root cause problems, take preventative measures, act quickly to solve {_SLA_Failure}s when they do occur, and minimize chances of similar {_SLA_Failure}s reoccurring.

Concept.3.sec=Suppliers typically maintain data regarding {_SLA} compliance. Based upon this data, Suppliers have a general idea as to whether they can meet a particular {_SLA} commitment, and what they can offer in terms of {_SLA} metrics and {_Liquidated_Damages}.

Concept.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s3]

IV. IACCM Contracting Principles

Principle.1.sec={_SLA}s should be developed by Suppliers and treated as a minimum level of Supplier performance.

Principle.2.sec={_SLA} credits should not be punitive, but rather should be in an amount that demonstrates Supplier’s good faith desire to meet and exceed {_SLA}s, as well as quickly detect Service Level Failures and prevent recurrence.

Principle.3.sec=Suppliers should have the obligation to provide performance reports on a periodic basis.

Principle.4.sec={_SLA}s should take into account both the complexity and the criticality of the services being provided.

Principle.5.sec={_SLA} credits should be based on quantified performance standards which are specifically set forth in the contract.

Principle.6.sec=If an {_SLA_Failure} occurs, Customers can request a predefined {_SLA} credit to be used towards future invoices.

Principle.7.sec=As an alternative to issuing this {_SLA} credit, Supplies could offer to provide new and/or different future services of equivalent or discounted value.

Principle.8.sec=It should be agreed to by the parties that {_SLA} credits are {_Liquidated_Damages} and not penalties, as {_SLA} penalties are not enforceable in some jurisdictions.

Principle.9.sec={_SLA} credits in the form of {_Liquidated_Damages} should be the sole and exclusive remedy available to the Customer. Otherwise, the Customer could also sue for breach of contract, resulting in an inequitable windfall to the Customer.

Principle.10.sec=Suppliers should provide credits that are due within two billing cycles of the determination that they are warranted.

Principle.11.sec=If {_SLA_Failure}s amount to the agreed-upon parameters of a {_Chronic_Service_Interruption}, Suppliers should, in addition to {_SLA} credits as {_Liquidated_Damages}, allow Customers to terminate the affected service without penalty (after appropriate escalation). In these situations, the {_SLA} Credits as {_Liquidated_Damages} and the termination right together should be the sole and exclusive remedies available to the Customer for the {_Chronic_Service_Interruption}.

Principle.12.sec=Customers should also have the right to claim general damages where (1) Supplier fails to respond to or address issues, such that the failure equates to abandonment of service or a similar egregious act; (2) Supplier cannot deliver the service as specified in the agreement; or (3) Supplier’s gross negligence or willful misconduct caused the {_SLA_Failure}/{_Chronic_Service_Interruption}.

Principle.13.sec=In the event that Customer is awarded general damages, any {_SLA} credits issued should be deducted from the damages award.

Principle.14.sec=Dispute resolution processes, including executive escalation, should be used first in attempts to resolve SL

Principle.15.sec=A Failure issues before Customers can initiate termination rights or claims for general damages.

Principle.16.0.sec=An {_SLA_Failure} should not be deemed to have occurred in situations where the failure is due to a Customer controlled issue or is otherwise out of the control of the Supplier. Examples are when an {_SLA} is not met due to:

Principle.16.1.sec=a Force Majeure event;

Principle.16.2.sec=acts or omissions on the part of Customer or any other third party over which the Supplier has no control;

Principle.16.3.sec=scheduled maintenance by Customer or entities under Customer’s direction or control;

Principle.16.4.sec=scheduled maintenance by Supplier within maintenance windows;

Principle.16.5.sec=lapses of service or performance issues related to non-Supplier provided and/or maintained equipment at a Customer site;

Principle.16.6.sec=Customer’s use of the services in violation of the Agreement, which violation caused the problem;

Principle.16.7.sec=Customer’s use of non-standard products and services not approved for use by Supplier; and

Principle.16.8.sec=Customer's failure to operate covered services in accordance with the terms of the applicable agreement.

Principle.16.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s8]

Principle.16.xlist=<ul class="secs-and"><li>{Principle.16.secs}</ul>

Principle.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s16]

Principle.Secs={Principle.secs}

Clause.=[G/IACCM-ContractPrinciples-CmA/Sec/SLA_Remedies/0.md]