Ti=Dispute Resolution

1.sec=The Parties shall make a good faith effort to negotiate a resolution of disputes before initiating litigation. During a contract dispute or contract issue between the Parties arising out of this Agreement, the Parties shall continue performance under this Agreement pending resolution of the dispute, unless to do so would be impossible or impracticable. Seller reserves the right to seek judicial resolution of any dispute arising under this Agreement that is not subject to arbitration under this Section 13.

2.sec=Final actions subject to section 9(e) of the Northwest Power Act are not subject to binding arbitration and shall remain within the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. Any dispute regarding any rights of the Parties under any BPA policy, including the implementation of such policy, shall not be subject to arbitration under this Agreement. Seller reserves the right to seek judicial resolution of any dispute arising under this Agreement that is not subject to arbitration under this Section 13. For purposes of this Section 13, BPA policy means any written document adopted by BPA as a final action in a decision record or record of decision that establishes a policy of general application, or makes a determination under an applicable statute. If either Party asserts that a dispute is excluded from arbitration under this Section 13, either Party may apply to the Federal court having jurisdiction for an order determining whether such dispute is subject to arbitration under this Section 13.

3.sec=Any contract dispute or contract issue between the Parties arising out of this Agreement, except for disputes that are excluded through Section 13(a) above, shall be subject to binding arbitration. The Parties shall make a good faith effort to resolve such disputes before initiating arbitration proceedings. During arbitration, the Parties shall continue performance under this Agreement pending resolution of the dispute, unless to do so would be impossible or impracticable.

4.sec=Any arbitration shall take place in Portland, Oregon, unless the Parties agree otherwise. The CPR Institute for Dispute Resolution’s arbitration procedures for commercial arbitration, Non-Administered Arbitration Rules (CPR Rules), shall be used for each dispute; provided, however, that: (1) the Parties shall have the discovery rights provided in the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure unless the Parties agree otherwise; and (2) for claims of $1 million or more, each arbitration shall be conducted by a panel of three neutral arbitrators. The Parties shall select the arbitrators from a list containing the names of 15 qualified individuals supplied by the CPR Institute for Dispute Resolution. If the Parties cannot agree upon three arbitrators on the list within 20 Business Days, the Parties shall take turns striking names from the list of proposed arbitrators. The Party initiating the arbitration shall take the first strike. This process shall be repeated until three arbitrators remain on the list, and those individuals shall be designated as the arbitrators. For disputes involving less than $1 million, a single neutral arbitrator shall be selected consistent with section 6 of the CPR Rules.

5.sec=Except for arbitration awards, which declare the rights and duties of the Parties under this Agreement, the payment of monies shall be the exclusive remedy available in any arbitration proceeding. Under no circumstances shall specific performance be an available remedy against BPA. The arbitration award shall be final and binding on both Parties, except that either Party may seek judicial review based upon any of the grounds referred to in the Federal Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. §1-16 (1988). Judgment upon the award rendered by the arbitrators may be entered by any court having jurisdiction thereof.

6.sec=Each Party shall be responsible for its own costs of arbitration, including legal fees. The arbitrators may apportion all other costs of arbitration between the Parties in such manner as they deem reasonable taking into account the circumstances of the case, the conduct of the Parties during the proceeding, and the result of the arbitration.

=[G/Z/ol/s6]
