Ti=Accountability

0.sec=—A {_covered_entity} shall ensure compliance with this Act by developing and implementing an ongoing accountability program that includes:

1.Ti=Policies

1.sec=— internal publication of written policies and procedures implementing the requirements of this Act.

2.Ti=Internal Leadership, Staffing, And Oversight.

2.0.sec=— appointment of a data privacy leader responsible for developing and implementing the {_covered_entity}’s {_consumer_privacy_and_data_security_program}, and related policies and practices.

2.1.sec=The data privacy leader shall report to senior management and shall be supported by appropriate resources and personnel. Without limitation to other covered entities, a small or medium sized {_covered_entity} shall allocate oversight resources in relation to its size and complexity, and the nature and scope of its data holdings and activities with {_personal_data}.

2.2.sec=Senior management shall be responsible for appropriate reporting and oversight of the privacy program.

2.3.sec=The data privacy leader shall develop and implement the {_covered_entity}’s programs, policies and practices.

2.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s3]

3.Ti=Staffing And Delegation

3.sec=- dedication of resources to ensure that the privacy program is appropriately staffed by adequately trained personnel. Without limitation to other covered entities, staffing and delegation decisions in small and medium-sized organizations should reﬂect the particular circumstances of the organization and its activities, and the nature, size and sensitivity of its data holdings.

4.Ti=Education and Awareness

4.sec=— an up-to-date education and awareness program to keep employees, contractors and {_third_parties} aware of data protection obligations.

5.Ti=Ongoing Risk Assessment and Mitigation

5.0.sec=— a {_process} to identify, assess, and mitigate {_privacy_risk}, including {_privacy_risk} raised by new products, services, technologies, methods of {_process}ing, and business models. Such process shall:

5.1.sec=identify reasonably foreseeable internal and external vulnerabilities and internal and external threats that could result in unauthorized access, destruction, acquisition, disclosure, or use of {_personal_data} or of systems containing {_personal_data};

5.2.sec=assess the likelihood and potential severity of {_privacy_risk} created by the {_process}ing of {_personal_data}, and from unauthorized access, destruction, acquisition, disclosure, or use of {_personal_data};

5.3.sec=assess the sufficiency of its technical, physical, and administrative controls to identify and mitigate {_privacy_risk} from unauthorized access, destruction, acquisition, disclosure, or {_process}ing of {_personal_data};

5.4.sec=assess the effectiveness of efforts to properly destroy and dispose of such {_personal_data}, including through the disposal or retirement of hardware or the transition to new software;

5.5.sec=assess the {_privacy_risk} to an individual from the misuse of {_personal_data} by either the {_covered_entity} or {_third_parties}; and

5.6.0.sec=assess the {_privacy_risk} from the use of algorithmic, machine learning or artificial intelligence processing of {_personal_data}. Such assessment shall include determinations of:

5.6.1.sec=the relevancy, accuracy, and adequacy of the data used to train the algorithm or analytical tool;

5.6.2.sec=the degree to which a {_covered_entity} employee or contractor should be involved in the decision

5.6.3.sec=making or oversight of the results of the {_process}ing; and

5.6.4.sec=whether it is likely the {_process}ing will result in substantial {_privacy_risk}.

5.6.=[G/Z/ol-i/s4]

5.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s6]

6.Ti=Program Risk Assessment Oversight and Validation

6.sec=— a periodic assessment, and in any event no less than annually, of the accountability program and supporting {_process}es to ensure compliance with this section. The results of these assessments, and any recommendations for changes to the program, shall be reported to the appropriate personnel within the {_covered_entity}, including senior management.

7.Ti=Incident Management and Complaint Handling

7.sec=— procedures for responding to data breaches and for addressing inquiries and complaints concerning {_personal_data}.

8.Ti=Internal Enforcement

8.sec=— procedures for internal enforcement of the {_covered_entity}’s policies and discipline for non-compliance.

9.Ti=Redress

9.sec=— procedures to provide remedies for {_privacy_risk}. The redress mechanisms shall be appropriate to the specific issue as well as to the size and complexity of the {_covered_entity} and the nature and scope of the {_covered_entity}’s activities and data holdings. The redress mechanism shall be readily and easily accessible.

=[G/Z/ol/9]

=[G/Z/ol-a/8]
