Note=Article 3 Annotation: This provision establishes the relationship between the data sharing agreement and the data and benefits sharing activities pursued under it.

Ti=The {_Agreement} and Public Health Surveillance Data Sharing Activities

1.Note=Article 3.1 Annotation: Data sharing activities must be described, and the Model Agreement encourages the parties to complete this task by using a standard form found in Annex A. As with the Model Agreement, the form in Annex A provides guidance and should be altered as needed to describe the data sharing activities contemplated. The Model Agreement is designed to allow the parties to undertake multiple data sharing activities, each described separately under Annex A.

1.Ti=Application of the {_Agreement} to Public Health Surveillance Data Sharing Activities

1.sec=The {_Parties} shall apply this {_Agreement} to each public health surveillance data sharing activity they undertake during the duration of the {_Agreement} (“{_Activity}”). Each {_Activity} shall be comprehensively described using the Initiating Public Health Surveillance Data Sharing Form in Annex A of the {_Agreement}, and the completed Form shall constitute an integral part of the {_Agreement}. Where necessary or appropriate, the {_Parties} may include information about an {_Activity} that is additional to the information required for completing the Initiating Public Health Surveillance Data Sharing Form and agree to incorporate it in the {_Agreement}. 

2.Note=Article 3.2 Annotation: Those involved in data sharing activities should decide and declare whether they want their respective responsibilities to be voluntary undertakings or legally binding obligations. The Model Agreement instructs the parties to make this choice in the description of data sharing activities in Annex A and to provide specific information (e.g. the governing law) for activities the parties want to be legally binding. The Model Agreement is designed to work for both binding and non-binding data sharing arrangements. The decision to make a data sharing agreement legally binding will create additional issues, including the advisability of engaging legal counsel in preparing or reviewing the data sharing agreement and the consequences of a legally binding agreement for settling disputes (see Article 7.1 below). The Agreement should be compliant with the laws of the countries involved, irrespective of whether the data sharing arrangements are binding or not.

2.Ti=Legal Status of the {_Agreement} and Activities

2.sec=For each {_Activity}, the {_Parties} shall indicate in the Initiating Public Health Surveillance Data Sharing Form (Annex A) whether the {_Agreement} shall be a legally binding contract. Where a legally binding contract is desired, {_Parties} should complete the relevant portions of this Form.

=[G/Z/ol/s2]
