Ti=Information Security Assessments

1.sec={Company.Name.Full} recognizes the critical importance of information security. Just as {Company.Name.Full} makes every effort to ensure the security of confidential information that our customers and partners share with us, we expect that outside counsel will implement adequate controls in order to secure the confidential information we entrust to our law firms for safekeeping. 

2.sec=As outside counsel is often privy to some of the most sensitive data of {Company.Name.Full} and/or our customers, we reserve the right to assess the information security practices of outside counsel as we deem necessary. The {Company.Name.Full} Information Technology department has developed the {Company.Name.Full} Information Security Review (“{DefT.ISR}”) Program to facilitate the assessments. The goal of the {_ISR} Program is to identify existing or potential risks that could adversely affect {Company.Name.Full} its customers, and/or its business activities. The assessments evaluate outside counsel’s data and technology related controls. If and when control deficiencies are identified, outside counsel must commit to take corrective action to eliminate, or significantly reduce the associated risk. Periodic re-evaluation of outside counsel’s controls helps to assure that adequate security measures remain in place and are adjusted accordingly as the scope or nature of the information being shared evolves. 

#Note=Should be customized to meet your program

3.0.sec=The following stages form our standard ”{_ISR}” process: 

3.1.sec=An analyst assesses the nature of the service offering, the associated inherent risk, and determines the type of information security review needed. 

3.2.sec=A link to the information security questionnaire is sent via email to the contact(s) to complete and submit the review form via an online web page. 

3.3.sec=The analyst reviews the questionnaire submission and generates a report of the findings and sends it to the Relationship Owner (”{Def.RO}”). 

3.4.sec=The {_RO}, along with the assistance of the {_ISR} analyst, schedules and conducts a meeting with the service provider to review their survey responses. Any identified information security issues, control deficiencies or areas of concern are discussed, as necessary, and risk ranked. 

3.5.sec=A remedial plan for correcting any issues or control deficiencies is obtained from the service provider and reviewed for completeness. Timescales for remediation are set and agreed between the {Company.Name.Full} and the service provider. 

3.6.sec=The service provider is monitored by the {_RO} to ensure all issues are corrected according to the agreed plan. 

3.7.sec=The service provider is subject to a periodic re-evaluation based on the inherent risk and nature of the services provided to {Company.Name.Full}

3.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s7]

4.sec=Additionally, outside counsel will maintain and enforce at any facilities where any outside counsel services are performed, other than {Company.Name.Full} facilities, safety and information security procedures that are at in line with {_ISR} Program requirements. In addition, when onsite at {Company.Name.Full} outside counsel will comply with all reasonable requirements of {Company.Name.Full} with respect to its facilities.

=[G/Z/ol/s4]
