Ti=The Squeezed Version

Intro.1.sec=Congratulations! You got yourself a <b>{Policy.Name}</b> for <b>{Policy.Cover.ShortDescription}</b>. Your policy number is <b>{Policy.Number}</b>.

Intro.2.sec=We want to make sure you know what you’re getting for your <b>{Policy.Premium.Month.$}</b> per month</b>, so we did our best to make this policy short and sweet.

Intro.3.sec=Please take a few minutes to read through it, and <b>{Insurer.Contact.Link}</b> if you have any questions. You can always  <b>{Policy.Coverage.Change.Link}</b>, <b>{Policy.AddValuableItems.Link}</b>, and more.

Intro.=[G/Z/paras/s3]

Who.Ti=Who’s covered?

Who.sec=This policy covers <b>{Insured.Name.Full}</b>. You can add more people, as long as they permanently live at <b>{Policy.Cover.Address.1}</b>.

Who.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

When.Ti=When?

When.sec=This policy covers events that started after <b>{Policy.Coverage.Period.StartMoment.YMDT}</b>, and before <b>{Policy.Coverage.Period.EndMoment.YMDT}</b>.

When.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

Risk.Ti=Against what?

Risk.sec=We protect you against <b>{Policy.Coverage.Risks.and}</b>. There are important limitations, though, so please read on.

Risk.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

HowMuch.Ti=For how much?

HowMuch.1.sec={HowMuch.CoverageOption.Sec}

HowMuch.2.sec=These amounts indicate the maximum we will reimburse you, in total, per year - even if the losses you suffer are larger.

HowMuch.3.sec=So take a minute to imagine the stuff belonging to everyone on the policy going up in flames tomorrow (ouch). Remember to include everyone's clothes, furniture, jewelry, cameras, laptops, and phones.

HowMuch.4.sec=If $10,000 isn’t enough to cover everything, please <b>{Policy.Coverage.Increase.Link}</b>. And if you own any valuable items worth more than $2,500, be sure to <b>{Policy.AddValuableItemsToPolicy.Link}</b> so they’re covered for their full amount.

HowMuch.=[G/Z/ol/s4]

LikeNew.Ti=Used or new?

LikeNew.sec=We will pay you the cost to repair or replace an item with one of the same make and model. If the exact item is not available, we’ll pay enough to buy something equivalent. We don’t pay less just because your damaged item was used.

LikeNew.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

sec={Intro.sec}<ol><li>{Who.Sec}<li>{When.Sec}<li>{Risk.Sec}<li>{HowMuch.Sec}<li>{LikeNew.Sec}</ol>


=[G/Z/ol/Base]