Ti=General Provisions

1.sec=Notices to the parties shall be provided at the address set forth in the {_License_Data_Record}, unless a party provides written notice to the other party of a change of address. Notices may be provided by personal delivery, express delivery service, or registered mail. Notices shall be effective on the date received.

2.sec=Nothing in this {_Agreement} constitutes the parties as partners, joint venturers, principal and agent, or fiduciaries of each other.

3.sec=A delay or failure in enforcing a right or obligation under this {_Agreement} shall not be construed as an implied waiver of that right or obligation or of any other provision or breach under this {_Agreement}. A waiver under this {_Agreement} is only effective if made in writing and signed by the party granting the waiver.

4.sec=An amendment or modification of this {_Agreement} is effective only if made in writing and signed by the duly authorized representatives of the parties. 

5.sec=This {_Agreement} constitutes the entire agreement between the parties as to the subject matter herein and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous negotiations, agreements, representations, memorandums, and understandings.

6.sec=If any provision of this {_Agreement} is deemed to be invalid or unenforceable, then that provision, to the extent unenforceable, is severable and the remainder of this {_Agreement} shall continue in full force and effect. 

7.sec={_Licensee} may not assign any of its rights under this {_Agreement}, delegate any of its obligations under this {_Agreement}, or otherwise transfer this {_Agreement}, without the prior written consent of {_Licensor}, and any attempted assignment, transfer, or delegation shall be voidable by {_Licensor}. Any change of control of {_Licensee} shall be deemed an attempted transfer of this {_Agreement}. {_Licensor} may assign this {_Agreement} in connection with a sale, merger, or transfer of the assets to which this {_Agreement} relates, provided that the assignee assumes all rights and obligations under this {_Agreement}.

8.sec={_Licensee} agrees to maintain insurance in amounts prudent for {_Licensee}’s operations and adequate to discharge {_Licensee}’s obligations under Section {Indemnify.Xnum}.

9.sec=This {_Agreement} is governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the jurisdiction set forth in the {_License_Data_Record}, if any. The parties agree that the proper jurisdiction and venue for any disputes arising out of this {_Agreement} shall be in the courts of the venue specified in the {_License_Data_Record}, if any. If none are specified, then jurisdiction and venue shall be deemed to be in the relevant jurisdiction for {_Licensor}’s address, as stated in the {_License_Data_Record}.

10.sec=No rights or forbearances are granted, or may arise (whether through implication, estoppel, exhaustion or otherwise) other than those expressly granted in this {_Agreement}.


11.sec=<span style="text-transform: uppercase">Except for the obligation to make payments (if any) in Section {Fee.Xnum}, the indemnification obligations in Section {Indemnify.Xnum}, and infringement of any trademark or intellectual property right, in no event will either party have any liability of any kind whatsoever to the other arising out of this {_Agreement}, including but not limited to, for indirect, incidental, consequential or special damages, even if advised of the possibility of such damages.</span>

=[G/Z/ol/s11]
