Note=This is merely a sketch, a work-in-progress, an attempt to be systematic.  It is not complete, not approved, not even really reviewed.  At your own diligence and risk.<br>The names are arbitrary, and they can be reworked or ignored (by using numbers).  But they are intended to be short, evocative, general handles for organization of the document.  These names have an impact on mouse-over of provisions, as well as navigation.  A few more controversial ones are Confide (which relates to confidentiality) and Expire - which is the termination provisions.  (The GE document separates the "Term" of the agreement from termination.)  All of this is, of course, negotiable and forkable.  

xlist=<ol><li>{Engage.Sec}</li><li>{Term.Sec}</li><li>{Staff.Sec}</li><li>{Compensate.Sec}</li><li>{Confide.Sec}</li><li>{IP.Sec}</li><li>{PersonalData.Sec}</li><li>{TangibleProperty.Sec}</li><li>{Test.Sec}</li><li>{Warrant.Sec}</li><li>{Assure.Sec}</li><li>{Relate.Sec}</li><li>{Comply.Sec}</li><li>{Environment.Sec}</li><li>{Conflict.Sec}</li><li>{Expire.Sec}</li><li>{Limit.Sec}</li><li>{Release.Sec}</li><li>{Notice.Sec}</li><li>{Dispute.Sec}</li><li>{Misc.Sec}</li><li>{Def.Sec}</li></ol>

Misc.=[F/Agt/MSA/ACME/EN/Sec/Misc/0.md]

Misc.Entire.=[F/Agt/MSA/ACME/EN/Sec/Entire/0.md]

Doc.Title=ACME Draft Model Master Services Agreement (Incomplete)

Intro.Persons.sec={Intro.Parties.Sec}<br>{Intro.Friends.Sec}

Intro.Friends.Ti=Subsidiaries of {P1.Handle}

Intro.Friends.Define.sec=Each a "{Company_Affiliate}" and collectively the "{Company_Affiliates}."

=[Z/Agt/0.md]

Foot.Sec=<hr><hr><center><b>List of Attachments</b></center><hr><hr>{Attach.List} 

Note=Oxford comma - (whether you prefer or eschew, embedding the marker disambiguates and disciplines.)

q=,

Note=borrowed and adapted from:  <a href="https://www.gepower.com/content/dam/gepower-pw/global/en_US/documents/supplier-document-library/master-services-agreement.pdf">https://www.gepower.com/content/dam/gepower-pw/global/en_US/documents/supplier-document-library/master-services-agreement.pdf</a>