Ti=Discovery

Rules.sec=In accordance with the Rules.

Rules.sec/Note=Do not specify any discovery related matters in the arbitration agreement, and apply the default provisions of the Commercial Arbitration Rules with regard to discovery related matters.

Limited.sec=Depositions shall be limited to a maximum of {DepositionMaxNumber.cl} per party and shall be held within {DepositionDeadline.days} of the making of a request.  Additional depositions may be scheduled only with the permission of the arbitrators, and for good cause shown. Each deposition shall be limited to a maximum of number {DepositionMaxLength.cl} duration.

DepositionMaxNumber.cl/Note=Please enter the number of depositions

DepositionDeadline.days/Note=Please enter the number of days (and word "days")

DepositionMaxLength.cl/Note=Please enter the maximum deposition time (and "hours")

DocumentsOnly.sec=Each party will, upon written request of the other party, promptly provide the other with copies of all relevant documents. There shall be no other discovery allowed.

DocumentsOnlyUnlessBigClaim.sec=If the dispute is less than {DiscoveryOnlyIfClaimMoreThan.$} there shall be no discovery other than the exchange of documents. If the dispute is over {DiscoveryOnlyIfClaimMoreThan.$}, discovery shall consist of no more than {DepositionMaxNumber.cl} depositions of {DepositionMaxLength.cl} or less.

Alt1.sec={Rules.sec}

Alt2.sec={Limited.sec}

Alt3.sec={DocumentsOnly.sec}

Alt4.sec={DocumentsOnlyUnlessBigClaim.sec}

=[G/Z/Alt/4]
