Ti=No Warranty, Limitation of Liability

Data-DisclaimRights.sec={_Data_Provider} does not represent or warrant that it has any rights whatsoever in the {_Data}.

Comment=We have chosen a broad disclaimer of representations and warranties, which may not be appropriate in commercial contexts. These disclaimers are common in the open data context to encourage possessors of data to share the data without requiring them to make promises about the data. Because the Data Provider makes no claims that they have rights in the data, the Downstream Recipient must ensure that its use of the Data conforms to applicable laws or regulations. A Data Provider should not use the O-UDA for Data that it knows should not be distributed, or data that contains sensitive or private information.

Data-AsIs.sec=The {_Data} is provided on an “as is” basis, without warranties or conditions of any kind, either express or implied including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions of title, non-infringement, merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.

Damage-Disclaim.sec=Neither {_Data_Provider} nor any {_Upstream_Data_Provider} shall have any liability for any direct, indirect, incidental, special, exemplary, or consequential damages (including without limitation lost profits), however caused and on any theory of liability, whether in contract, strict liability, or tort (including negligence or otherwise) arising in any way out of the {_Data} or {_Outputs}, even if advised of the possibility of such damages.

Comment=These disclaimers are necessary to limit Data Provider’s liability. They disclaim both express and implied warranties or representations, and the  disclaimer applies to all Upstream Data Providers. These limitations of liability are common in the open data context to encourage possessors of data to share the data without requiring them to accept liability to a user for downstream uses of the data, but may not be appropriate in commercial contexts.

sec=<ol><li>{Data-DisclaimRights.sec}</li><li><span style="text-transform: uppercase">{Data-AsIs.sec}</span></li><li><span style="text-transform: uppercase">{Damage-Disclaim.sec}</span></li></ol>

=[G/Z/Base]