Ti=The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

1.Ti=SECTION 1. 

1.sec=This act shall be known, and may be cited, as the Safe and Secure Innovation for Frontier Artificial Intelligence Models Act.

2.Ti=SEC. 2. 

2.0.sec=The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:

2.1.sec=California is leading the world in artificial intelligence innovation and research, through companies large and small, as well as through our remarkable public and private universities.

2.2.sec=Artificial intelligence, including new advances in generative artificial intelligence, has the potential to catalyze innovation and the rapid development of a wide range of benefits for Californians and the California economy, including advances in medicine, wildfire forecasting and prevention, and climate science, and to push the bounds of human creativity and capacity.

2.3.sec=If not properly subject to human controls, future development in artificial intelligence may also have the potential to be used to create novel threats to public safety and security, including by enabling the creation and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, such as biological, chemical, and nuclear weapons, as well as weapons with cyber-offensive capabilities.

2.4.sec=The state government has an essential role to play in ensuring that California recognizes the benefits of this technology while avoiding the most severe risks, as well as to ensure that artificial intelligence innovation and access to compute is accessible to academic researchers and startups, in addition to large companies.

2.=[G/Z/ol-a/s4]

3.Ti=SEC. 3.

3.0.sec=Chapter 22.6 (commencing with Section 22602) is added to Division 8 of the Business and Professions Code, to read:

3.1.sec={BusProfCode.D8.Sec}

3.=[G/Z/ol-none/s1]

BusProfCode.D8.=[G/US/CA/Legis/20240SB1047/Sec/226.md]


BusProfCode.D8.!!!={!!!}BusProfCode.D8.

!!!=#

4.Ti=SEC. 4. 

4.0.sec=Section 11547.6 is added to the Government Code, to read:
11547.6. 

4.1.sec=As used in this section, “critical harm” has the same meaning as defined in Section 22602 of the Business and Professions Code.

4.2.sec=There is hereby established the Board of Frontier Models. The board shall be housed in the Government Operations Agency and shall be independent of the Department of Technology. The Governor may appoint an executive officer of the board, subject to Senate confirmation, who shall hold the office at the pleasure of the Governor. The executive officer shall be the administrative head of the board and shall exercise all duties and functions necessary to ensure that the responsibilities of the board are successfully discharged.

4.3.0.sec=

4.3.1.0.sec=Commencing January 1, 2026, the Board of Frontier Models shall be composed of nine members, as follows:

4.3.1.1.sec=A member of the open-source community appointed by the Governor and subject to Senate confirmation.

4.3.1.2.sec=A member of the artificial intelligence industry appointed by the Governor and subject to Senate confirmation.

4.3.1.3.sec=An expert in chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear weapons appointed by the Governor and subject to Senate confirmation.

4.3.1.4.sec=An expert in artificial intelligence safety appointed by the Governor and subject to Senate confirmation.

4.3.1.5.sec=An expert in cybersecurity of critical infrastructure appointed by the Governor and subject to Senate confirmation.

4.3.1.6.sec=Two members who are academics with expertise in artificial intelligence appointed by the Speaker of the Assembly.

4.3.1.7.sec=Two members appointed by the Senate Rules Committee.

4.3.1.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s7]

4.3.2.0.sec=A member of the Board of Frontier Models shall meet all of the following criteria:

4.3.2.1.sec=A member shall be free of direct and indirect external influence and shall not seek or take instructions from another.

4.3.2.2.sec=A member shall not take an action or engage in an occupation, whether gainful or not, that is incompatible with the member’s duties.

4.3.2.3.sec=A member shall not, either at the time of the member’s appointment or during the member’s term, have a financial interest in an entity that is subject to regulation by the board.

4.3.2.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s3]

4.3.3.sec=A member of the board shall serve at the pleasure of the member’s appointing authority but shall serve for no longer than eight consecutive years.

4.3.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

4.4.0.sec=

4.4.1.sec=On or before January 1, 2027, and annually thereafter, the Government Operations Agency shall issue regulations to update both of the following thresholds in the definition of a “covered model” to ensure that it accurately reflects technological developments, scientific literature, and widely accepted national and international standards and applies to artificial intelligence models that pose significant risk of causing or materially enabling critical harms.

4.4.2.0.sec=The updated definition shall contain both of the following:

4.4.2.1.sec=The initial compute threshold that an artificial intelligence model shall exceed to be considered a covered model.

4.4.2.2.sec=The fine-tuning compute threshold that an artificial intelligence model shall meet to be considered a covered model.

4.4.2.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s2]

4.4.3.0.sec=In developing regulations pursuant to this subdivision, the Government Operations Agency shall take into account all of the following:

4.4.3.1.sec=The quantity of computing power used to train covered models that have been identified as being reasonably likely to cause or materially enable a critical harm.

4.4.3.2.sec=Similar thresholds used in federal law, guidance, or regulations for the management of artificial intelligence models with reasonable risks of causing or enabling critical harms.

4.4.3.3.sec=Input from stakeholders, including academics, industry, the open-source community, and government entities.

4.4.3.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s3]

4.4.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

4.5.0.sec=

4.5.1.0.sec=On or before January 1, 2027, and annually thereafter, the Government Operations Agency shall issue regulations to establish binding auditing requirements applicable to audits conducted pursuant to subdivision (e) of Section 22603 of the Business and Professions Code to ensure the integrity, independence, efficiency, and effectiveness of the auditing process. In developing regulations pursuant to this subdivision, the Government Operations Agency shall take into account both of the following:

4.5.1.1.sec=Relevant standards or requirements imposed under federal or state law or through self-regulatory or standards-setting bodies.

4.5.1.2.sec=Input from stakeholders, including academics, industry, and government entities, including from the open-source community.

4.5.1.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s2]

4.5.2.sec=Any regulations issued pursuant to paragraph (1) shall, at a minimum, be consistent with guidance issued by the U.S. Artificial Intelligence Safety Institute and the National Institute of Standards and Technology.

4.5.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

4.6.0.sec=

4.6.1.sec=On or before January 1, 2027, and annually thereafter, the Government Operations Agency shall issue guidance for preventing unreasonable risks of covered models and covered model derivatives causing or materially enabling critical harms, including, but not limited to, more specific components of, or requirements under, the duties required under Section 22603 of the Business and Professions Code.

4.6.2.sec=Any guidance issued pursuant to paragraph (1) shall, at a minimum, be consistent with guidance issued by the U.S. Artificial Intelligence Safety Institute and the National Institute of Standards and Technology.

4.6.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

4.7.sec=Regulations and guidance adopted pursuant to this section shall be approved by the Board of Frontier Models before taking effect.

4.=[G/Z/ol-a/s7]

5.Ti=SEC. 5.

5.0.sec=Section 11547.6.1 is added to the Government Code, to read:<br><b>11547.6.1.</b>

5.1.sec=There is hereby established in the Government Operations Agency a consortium that shall develop, pursuant to this section, a framework for the creation of a public cloud computing cluster to be known as “CalCompute.”

5.2.0.sec=The consortium shall develop a framework for creation of CalCompute that advances the development and deployment of artificial intelligence that is safe, ethical, equitable, and sustainable by doing, at a minimum, both of the following:

5.2.1.sec=Fostering research and innovation that benefits the public.

5.2.2.sec=Enabling equitable innovation by expanding access to computational resources.

5.2.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

5.3.sec=The consortium shall make reasonable efforts to ensure that CalCompute is established within the University of California to the extent possible.

5.4.0.sec=CalCompute shall include, but not be limited to, all of the following:

5.4.1.sec=A fully owned and hosted cloud platform.

5.4.2.sec=Necessary human expertise to operate and maintain the platform.

5.4.3.sec=Necessary human expertise to support, train, and facilitate use of CalCompute.

5.4.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

5.5.sec=The consortium shall operate in accordance with all relevant labor and workforce laws and standards.

5.6.0.sec=

5.6.1.sec=On or before January 1, 2026, the Government Operations Agency shall submit, pursuant to Section 9795, a report from the consortium to the Legislature with the framework developed pursuant to subdivision (b) for creation and operation of CalCompute.

5.6.2.0.sec=The report required by this subdivision shall include all of the following elements:

5.6.2.1.sec=A landscape analysis of California’s current public, private, and nonprofit cloud computing platform infrastructure.

5.6.2.2.sec=An analysis of the cost to the state to build and maintain CalCompute and recommendations on potential funding sources.

5.6.2.3.sec=Recommendations for the governance structure and ongoing operation of CalCompute.

5.6.2.4.sec=Recommendations on the parameters for use of CalCompute, including, but not limited to, a process for determining which users and projects will be supported by CalCompute.

5.6.2.5.sec=An analysis of the state’s technology workforce and recommendations for equitable pathways to strengthen the workforce, including the role of CalCompute.

5.6.2.6.sec=A detailed description of any proposed partnerships, contracts, or licensing agreements with nongovernmental entities, including, but not limited to, technology-based companies, that demonstrates compliance with the requirements of subdivisions (c) and (d).

5.6.2.7.sec=Recommendations regarding how the creation and ongoing management of CalCompute can prioritize the use of the current public sector workforce.

5.6.2.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s7]

5.6.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

5.7.0.sec=

5.7.1.0.sec=The consortium shall, consistent with state constitutional law, consist of 14 members selected from among all of the following:

5.7.1.1.sec=Representatives of the University of California and other public and private academic research institutions and national laboratories.

5.7.1.2.sec=Representatives of impacted workforce labor organizations.

5.7.1.3.sec=Representatives of stakeholder groups with relevant expertise and experience, including, but not limited to, ethicists, consumer rights advocates, and other public interest advocates.

5.7.1.4.sec=Experts in technology and artificial intelligence to provide technical assistance.

5.7.1.5.sec=Personnel from other relevant departments and agencies as necessary.

5.7.1.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s5]

5.7.2.sec=Eight members of the consortium shall be selected by the Secretary of Government Operations, and the President Pro Tempore of the Senate and the Speaker of the Assembly shall each select three members.

5.7.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

5.8.sec=If CalCompute is established within the University of California pursuant to subdivision (c), the University of California may receive private donations for the purposes of implementing CalCompute.

5.9.sec=This section shall become operative only upon an appropriation in a budget act for the purposes of this section.

5.=[G/Z/ol-a/s9]

6.Ti=SEC. 6.

6.sec=The provisions of this act are severable. If any provision of this act or its application is held invalid, that invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications that can be given effect without the invalid provision or application.

7.Ti=SEC. 7.

7.sec=This act shall be liberally construed to effectuate its purposes.

8.Ti=SEC. 8.

8.0.sec=The Legislature finds and declares that Section 3 of this act, which adds Chapter 22.6 (commencing with Section 22602) to Division 8 of the Business and Professions Code, imposes a limitation on the public’s right of access to the meetings of public bodies or the writings of public officials and agencies within the meaning of Section 3 of Article I of the California Constitution. Pursuant to that constitutional provision, the Legislature makes the following findings to demonstrate the interest protected by this limitation and the need for protecting that interest:

8.1.sec=Information in unredacted safety and security protocols and auditor’s reports may contain corporate proprietary information or information about covered models and covered model derivatives that could threaten public safety if disclosed to the public.

8.=[G/Z/ol-none/s1]

=[G/Z/ol/s8]
