Note=[?https://app.openlaw.io/template/Copyright%20License%20Agreement]

Note="License" is used but not defined.  "Termination Date" is defined but not used.  "License Fee" was missing a quote mark.  "Work" is used but not defined. "Person" is used but not defined.


Doc.Ti=COPYRIGHT LICENSE AGREEMENT

This.sec=THIS {Doc.Ti} (this "{Def.Agreement.sec}") is made as of {Effective Date} (the "{Def.Effective_Date.sec}"), by and between {Licensor.US.N,E,A} (the "{_Licensor}") and {Licensee.US.N,E,A} (the "{_Licensee}"). For the purposes of this {_Agreement}, the {_Licensor} and the {_Licensee} may be referred to individually as a "{_Party}" or collectively referred to as the "{_Parties}".


Original-This.sec=THIS COPYRIGHT LICENSE AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") is made as of {Effective Date} (the "{_Effective_Date}"), by and between {Licensor Name} domiciled at {Licensor Address} (the "Licensor") and {Licensee Name} a(n) {Licensee Headquarters} {Licensee Entity} (the "Licensee"). For the purposes of this Agreement, the Licensor and the Licensee may be referred to individually as a "Party" or collectively referred to as the "Parties".

Why.=[G/OpenLaw.io/CopyrightLicense/Sec/Why/0.md]

That.sec=NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants set forth in this {_Agreement}, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the {_Parties} intending to be legally bound, agree as follows:

sec=<ol><li>{Why.Sec}<li>{License.Sec}<li>{Term.Sec}<li>{Fee.Sec}<li>{Sublicense.Sec}<li>{Rep.Sec}<li>{Beneficiary.Sec}<li>{Waive.Sec}<li>{Indemnify.Sec}<li>{Law.Sec}<li>{Headings.Sec}<li>{Misc.Sec}</ol>

License.=[G/OpenLaw.io/CopyrightLicense/Sec/License/0.md]

Term.=[G/OpenLaw.io/CopyrightLicense/Sec/Term/0.md]

Fee.=[G/OpenLaw.io/CopyrightLicense/Sec/Fee/0.md]

Sublicense.=[G/OpenLaw.io/CopyrightLicense/Sec/Sublicense/0.md]

Rep.=[G/OpenLaw.io/CopyrightLicense/Sec/Rep/0.md]

Rep.SecName=Rep

Beneficiary.=[G/OpenLaw.io/CopyrightLicense/Sec/Beneficiary/0.md]

Waive.=[G/OpenLaw.io/CopyrightLicense/Sec/Waive/0.md]

Indemnify.=[G/OpenLaw.io/CopyrightLicense/Sec/Indemnify/0.md]

Law.=[G/OpenLaw.io/CopyrightLicense/Sec/Law/0.md]

Headings.=[G/OpenLaw.io/CopyrightLicense/Sec/Headings/0.md]

Misc.=[G/OpenLaw.io/CopyrightLicense/Sec/Misc/0.md]

By.0.sec=IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the {_Parties} have executed this {Doc.Ti} as of the date first written above.

=[G/Agt-Form-CmA/US/Frame/Licensor-Licensee/0.md]

EffectiveDate.YMD={Effective Date}

Def.Termination_Date.sec={_Termination_Date}

_Termination_Date=<a href="#Def.Termination_Date.sec" class="definedterm">Termination Date</a>

Def.License_Fee.sec={_License_Fee}

_License_Fee=<a href="#Def.License_Fee.sec" class="definedterm">License Fee</a>

Def.Work.sec={_Work}

_Work=<a href="#Def.Work.sec" class="definedterm">Work</a>

_Purpose=<a href="#Def.Purpose.sec" class="definedterm">Purpose</a>
