Ti=EX ANTE PUBLICITY FOR NEGOTIATED PROCEDURE FOR LOW VALUE CONTRATS

0.1.sec={Call.Title}

0.2.sec={Call.ID}

0.=[G/Z/paras/s2]

1.Ti=Contracting authority

1.sec={Authority.N/A}

2.Ti=Negotiated procedure for low value contract

2.1.sec=Expressions of interest should be submitted in one of the official languages of the European Union by electronic means at the following address: {Authority.Email}.

2.2.sec=Inclusion on the list entails no obligation on the part of the contracting authority concerning the conclusion of contracts.

2.=[G/Z/paras/s2]

3.Ti=Information and documents to be provided

3.sec=Interested parties should provide their full contact details.

4.Ti=General description of the procedure

4.1.sec=Interested parties are invited to submit an expression of interest in accordance with the rules set out in this notice.

4.2.sec=The contracting authority will invite all economic operators who have expressed their interest to submit a tender and will send them the tender specifications relating to the contract in question.

4.=[G/Z/paras/s2]

5.Ti=Protection of personal data

5.1.sec=If processing your expression of interest involves the recording and processing of personal data (such as your name, address and CV), such data will be processed pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the Community institutions and bodies and on the free movement of such data. Unless indicated otherwise, your reply to this notice and any personal data requested are required for the purposes indicated above in point 4 and will be processed solely for those purposes by the contracting authority indicated in point 1, which is also acting as data controller. Details concerning the processing of your personal data are available on the privacy statement at:<ul><li>http://ec.europa.eu/budget/library/explained/management/protecting/privacy_statement_edes_en.pdf</ul>

5.2.sec=Your personal data may be registered in the Early Detection and Exclusion System (EDES) by the responsible Authorizing Officer of the Commission, should you be in one of the situations mentioned in Article 136 of the Financial Regulation (regulation EU/EURATOM 2018/1046 of 18 July 2018).

5.=[G/Z/paras/s2]

6.Ti=Use of the list resulting from this notice

6.sec=The list resulting from this ex ante publicity will be used exclusively for selection of candidates to be invited in a negotiated procedure for low value contracts.

8.Ti=Place of delivery

8.sec=European Commission premises.

9.Ti=Deadline for expressions of interest

9.sec=The interested economic operators should express their interest at the latest on 6 December 2018.

10.Ti=Ex-post transparency

10.1.sec=Details on the contractors who have concluded a contract of more than €15 000 awarded following the procedure set out at point 4 shall be published on the website of the contracting authority no later than 30 June of the year following contract award.

10.2.sec=These details include name, locality (address for legal persons and region of origin for natural persons), amount, and subject of the contract. For natural persons, the information shall be removed two years after the year of contract award.

10.=[G/Z/paras/s2]

=[G/Z/ol/10]
