Ti=Successors and Assigns

Alt0.sec=<font color="red">See Sec_Misc_Assign.md for some suggested formulations - in format Alt-X.sec.</font>

1.Alt1.sec=A {_party} shall not subcontract or otherwise delegate or assign {_this_Agreement} or any of its obligations under {_this_Agreement} without the other {_party}'s prior written consent.

1.Alt2.sec={P2.The} shall not assign or transfer any rights or obligations under {_this_Agreement} without {P1.the}'s prior written consent.

1.Alt3.sec={P1.The} shall not assign or transfer any rights or obligations under {_this_Agreement} without {P2.the}'s prior written consent.

1.=[Z/Alt/3]

1.SecName={SecName}.1

2.Alt1.sec={2.Base.Cl}.

2.Alt2.sec={2.Base.Cl}, except that either {_Party} may assign {_this_Agreement} without such consent to its successor in interest by way of merger, acquisition or sale of all or substantially all of its assets.

2.Alt3.sec={2.Base.Cl}, except that {P1.the} may assign {_this_Agreement} without such consent to its successor in interest by way of merger, acquisition or sale of all or substantially all of its assets.

2.Alt4.sec={2.Base.Cl}, except that {P2.the} may assign {_this_Agreement} without such consent to its successor in interest by way of merger, acquisition or sale of all or substantially all of its assets.

2.=[Z/Alt/4]

2.Base.Cl=Any attempted assignment, subcontract, delegation, or transfer in violation of the foregoing shall be null and void

2.SecName={SecName}.2

3.Alt1.sec=Subject to the foregoing, {_this_Agreement} will be for the benefit of each {_party}'s successors and assigns, and will be binding on each {_party}'s assignees.

3.Alt2.sec=Subject to the foregoing, {_this_Agreement} will be for the benefit of {P1.the}'s successors and assigns, and will be binding on {P2.the}'s assignees.

3.Alt3.sec=Subject to the foregoing, {_this_Agreement} will be for the benefit of {P2.the}'s successors and assigns, and will be binding on {P1.the}'s assignees.

3.=[Z/Alt/3]

3.SecName={SecName}.3

Note=Mutual

Alt-X.sec=For instance: <ol><li>Alt-1.sec - Mutual:<br>{Alt-1.sec}<li>Alt-2.sec - Mutual, but allowing merger by P1:<br>{Alt-2.sec}<li>Alt-3.sec - Benefiting only P1:<br>{Alt-3.sec}<li>Alt-4.sec - Benefiting only P2:<br>{Alt-4.sec}</ol>

Note=Mutual

Alt-1.sec={1.Alt1.sec} {2.Alt1.sec} {3.Alt1.sec}

Note=Mutual, but allowing merger by P1.

Alt-2.sec={1.Alt1.sec} {2.Alt2.sec} {3.Alt1.sec}

Note=Binding only P2.

Alt-3.sec={1.Alt2.sec} {2.Alt1.sec} {3.Alt2.sec}

Note=Binding only P1.

Alt-4.sec={1.Alt3.sec} {2.Alt1.sec} {3.Alt3.sec}

Model.Root=<ol><li>{Sec}<li>{Alt-X.sec}</ol>

=[Z/ol/s3]

SecName=Misc.Assign
