Ti= TERMS AND DEFINITIONS

Authority_for_Processing.sec={_Authority_for_Processing}: An underlying assumption in the JLINC suite of protocols and software is that the {_Data_Custodian} will not process any data from the {_Rights_Holder} without some form of authority, such as consent, received from the {_Rights_Holder} directly or derived from a contractual, regulatory, or legal obligation that is binding on the {_Data_Custodian}.

Data_Custodian.sec={_Data_Custodian}: This is the entity that is processing data as received from and/or as directed by the {_Rights_Holder}.

Note="Data Controller Custodian" and "Data Processor Custodian" used but not defined.

Data_Processing.sec={_Data_Processing}: The {_Rights_Holder} and the {_Data_Custodian} shall jointly determine the scope, purposes, and manner by which {_Personal_Data} may be collected, used, disclosed, retained, or disposed of by the Data Controller Custodian or any subsequent Data Processor Custodian. Where not otherwise required by regulation, the determination of allowable data processing will be asserted by the {_Rights_Holder} through the {_JLINC_protocol} and this SISA. This may be referred to as ‘processing’ or ‘processed’ in the body of the document below.

Note="JLINC protocol" definition was buried in preceding paragraph.  Use of lower-case "protocol" is non-conventional, creates ambiguity.

JLINC_protocol.sec={_JLINC_protocol}: The technical specification for implementing permissioned data as set out in the API documentation for JLINC.

Note=Use of lower-case "software" is non-conventional, creates ambiguity.

JLINC_software.sec={_JLINC_software}: The suite of protocols, software and web services that implement the JLINC Protocol.

Personal_Data.sec={_Personal_Data}: Information about a natural person. At implementation of the {_JLINC_software} {_Personal_Data} shall be deemed to be that information about people that is protected by the privacy legislation that applies to the Data Controller Custodian. In the absence of such legislation, the General Data Protection Regulation shall be deemed to be the applicable legislation for the definition of {_Personal_Data}.

Note="Privacy Legislation" is used but not defined.

Privacy_Legislation.sec={_Privacy_Legislation}: At implementation of the {_JLINC_software} this shall be the privacy legislation that applies to the Data Controller in the jurisdiction where the Data Controller collects the {_Personal_Data}. In the absence of such legislation, the General Data Protection Regulation shall be deemed to be the applicable legislation.

Rights_Holder.sec={_Rights_Holder}: This is the entity that supplies data and/or permissions to the {_Data_Custodian} to enable the {_Data_Custodian} to process that data.

Standard_Information_Sharing_Agreement.sec={_Standard_Information_Sharing_Agreement}: This document is a {_Standard_Information_Sharing_Agreement} that sets out in prose what how permissioned is implemented by the JLINC suite of protocols, software and web services.

sec=<ul type="bullet"><li>{Authority_for_Processing.sec}<li>{Data_Custodian.sec}<li>{Data_Processing.sec}<li>{JLINC_protocol.sec}<li>{JLINC_software.sec}<li>{Personal_Data.sec}<li>{Privacy_Legislation.sec}<li>{Rights_Holder.sec}<li>{Standard_Information_Sharing_Agreement.sec}</ul>

=[G/Z/ol/Base]

