Note=While venture capital investors in the tech sector are generally reluctant to enter into confidential disclosure agreements (CDA) and generally eschew them, life science venture investors generally will enter into CDAs in advance of looking at proprietary and confidential information.  This form was developed by in-house counsel at a number of leading life science venture firms and represents consensus “best practices” for a life science VC that is the receiving party.



P1.US.Contract.Among.Sec={Company.US.Contract.Among.Sec}

P1.US.Contract.By.Sec={Company.US.Contract.By.Sec}

P1.Name.Full={Company.Name.Full}

P2.US.Contract.Among.Sec={US.Contract.Among.Sec}

P2.US.Contract.By.Sec={US.Contract.By.Sec}

P2.Name.Full={Name.Full}

US.Contract.Among.ID.sec=</>

That.Div=</>

Why.Div=</>

Handle={_Recipient}

Doc.Ti=Confidentiality Agreement

This.sec=This {Doc.Ti} (this “{Def.Agreement.Target}”) is made and entered into as of {EffectiveDate.YMD} (“{Def.Effective_Date.Target}”), by and between {Company.US.N,E,A} (“{Def.Company.Target}”) and {US.N,E,A} (“{Def.Recipient.Target}”) (the {_Company} and {_Recipient}, collectively, the “{Def.Parties.Target}”).

Note=In the original, the term "Parties" is defined but then the Agreement mostly fails to use a capital letter for parties and party.  Will correct that and show the changes in a commit.

Note=Could remove the standard THEREFORE line, since the form does not use it. Uncomment "/That.sec"

/That.sec=</>

Def.Confidential_Information.=[G/NVCA/2020/LS-CDA/Sec/Def/Confidential_Information/0.md]

Conf.Engage.=[G/NVCA/2020/LS-CDA/Sec/Conf/Engage/0.md]

Conf.Exclude.=[G/NVCA/2020/LS-CDA/Sec/Conf/Exclude/0.md]

Own.=[G/NVCA/2020/LS-CDA/Sec/Own/0.md]

Warranty.=[G/NVCA/2020/LS-CDA/Sec/Warranty/None/0.md]

Free-to-VC.=[G/NVCA/2020/LS-CDA/Sec/Free-to-VC/0.md]

Publicity.=[G/NVCA/2020/LS-CDA/Sec/Publicity/None/0.md]

Remedy.=[G/NVCA/2020/LS-CDA/Sec/Remedy/Injunction/0.md]

Term.=[G/NVCA/2020/LS-CDA/Sec/Term/0.md]

Binding-Counterparts.=[G/NVCA/2020/LS-CDA/Sec/Binding-Counterparts/0.md]

Waiver-Modification.=[G/NVCA/2020/LS-CDA/Sec/Waiver-Modification/0.md]

Law-Forum.=[G/NVCA/2020/LS-CDA/Sec/Law-Forum/0.md]

EntireAgreement.=[G/NVCA/2020/LS-CDA/Sec/EntireAgreement/0.md]
 
Sign.0.sec=IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the {_Parties} have executed this {_Agreement} as of the date first written above.

=[G/AgtForm/US/0.md]

sec=<ol><li>{Def.Confidential_Information.Sec}<li>{Conf.Engage.Sec}<li>{Conf.Exclude.Sec}<li>{Own.Sec}<li>{Warranty.Sec}<li>{Free-to-VC.Sec}<li>{Publicity.Sec}<li>{Remedy.Sec}<li>{Term.Sec}<li>{Binding-Counterparts.Sec}<li>{Waiver-Modification.Sec}<li>{Law-Forum.Sec}<li>{EntireAgreement.Sec}</ol>

Annex.Sec=<h3>ATTACHMENT A</h3><br>{Annex.sec}

_P2={_Recipient}

_P1={_Company}


xSignature=__________________


Conf.Engage.Xnum=<a href='{#!!}Conf.Engage.Sec'>2</a>

#!!=#

SecName=</>

Def.Confidential_Information.SecName={SecName}Def.Confidential_Information.

Conf.Engage.SecName={SecName}Conf.Engage.

Conf.Exclude.SecName={SecName}Conf.Exclude.

Own.SecName={SecName}Own.

Warranty.SecName={SecName}Warranty.

Free-to-VC.SecName={SecName}Free-to-VC.

Publicity.SecName={SecName}Publicity.

Remedy.SecName={SecName}Remedy.

Term.SecName={SecName}Term.

Binding-Counterparts.SecName={SecName}Binding-Counterparts.

Waiver-Modification.SecName={SecName}Waiver-Modification.

Law-Forum.SecName={SecName}Law-Forum.

EntireAgreement.SecName={SecName}EntireAgreement.
