
Ti=Do you intend to take on any of the following activities as part of your proposal?

0.sec=Select all that apply.

1.prompt=Basic and/or clinical research.

1.comment=The 100&Change competition will not consider a project focused on basic and/or clinical research. We define this as any project that is in the early or ongoing stages of testing a research hypothesis.

2.prompt=Developing and/or validating a new product, tool, or methodology.

2.comment=While a portion of your $100 million (USD) budget may be allocated to developing a tool or methodology, 100&Change will not support a project that is solely focused on this type of work. We define this as any project that is in the early stages of testing a new product or platform or any project in the “proof of concept” stage, which is unlikely to advance past administrative review.

3.prompt=Lobbying.

3.comment=Grant funds may not be used for lobbying purposes as defined in section 4945 and related regulations unless the Grantee is a 501 (c) (3) and 509 (a) (1) or (2) organization and complies with the applicable regulations. Read our Lobbying Policy for more information.

4.prompt=Establishing a grantmaking program.

4.comment=The 100&Change competition will not consider a project that involves re-granting a large percentage of the $100 million (USD) award to other organizations or entities.

5.prompt=Establishing an investment fund.

5.comment=The 100&Change competition will not consider a project involving the investment of a large percentage of the grant funds.

6.prompt=Providing direct scholarships to individuals.

6.comment=The 100&Change competition is very unlikely to consider a project that provides direct scholarships to individuals.

7.prompt=None of the above.

7.comment=Great. The 100&Change competition is very unlikely to consider a project that includes any of the above activities.

1.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

2.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

3.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

4.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

5.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

6.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

7.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

=[G/Z/ol/s7]
