Ti=Core Elements of Responsible Data Sharing

1.sec=It is good practice for those involved in genomic and health-related data sharing to have core elements of responsible data sharing in place. The following Core Elements of the Framework aid in the interpretation of the Foundational Principles to individuals and organizations involved in the sharing of genomic and health-related data. The Core Elements should be interpreted in a proportionate manner that acknowledges different levels of risk and community cultural practices. <b>This Framework applies to use of data that have been consented to by donors (or their legal representatives) and/or approved for use by competent bodies or institutions in compliance with national and international laws, general ethical principles, and best practice standards that respect restrictions on downstream uses.</b> Endorsement of the Framework does not preclude the development of particular guidance via Policies for specific populations (e.g. children) or issues (e.g. ethical governance, privacy and security, and consent).

2.0.sec=Core Elements of Responsible Data Sharing

2.1.Ti=Transparency

2.1.1.sec=Develop clearly defined and accessible information on the purposes, processes, procedures and governance frameworks for data sharing. Such information should be presented in a way that is understandable and accessible in both digital and non-digital formats.

2.1.2.sec=Provide clear information on the purpose, collection, use and exchange of genomic and health-related data, including, but not limited to: data transfer to third parties; international transfer of data; terms of access; duration of data storage; identifiability of individuals and data and limits to anonymity or confidentiality of data; communication of results to individuals and/or groups; oversight of downstream uses of data; commercial involvement; proprietary claims; and processes of withdrawal from data sharing.

2.1.3.sec=Implement procedures for fairly determining requests for data access and/or exchange.

2.1.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s3]

2.2.Ti=Accountability

2.2.1.sec=Put in place systems for data sharing that respect this Framework.

2.2.2.sec=Track the chain of data access and/or exchange to its source.

2.2.3.sec=Develop processes to identify and manage conflicts of interest.

2.2.4.sec=Implement mechanisms for handling complaints related to data misuse; for identifying, reporting and managing breaches; and for instituting appropriate sanctions.

2.2.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s4]

2.3.Ti=Engagement

2.3.1.sec=Develop mechanisms to enable citizens to make meaningful contributions to biomedical research and to partake in deliberation on how these contributions can be respected.

2.3.2.sec=Facilitate deliberation about the wider societal implications of genomic and health-related data sharing among all stakeholders, especially citizens.

2.3.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s2]

2.4.Ti=Data Quality and Security

2.4.1.sec=Store and process the data collected, used and transferred in a way that is accurate, verifiable, unbiased, proportionate, and current, so as to enhance their interoperability and replicability and also preserve their long-term searchability and integrity.

2.4.2.sec=Ensure feedback mechanisms on the utility, quality, security, and accuracy of data, and their annotations, with a view to improving quality and interoperability and appropriate re-use by others.

2.4.3.sec=Establish proportionate data security measures that mitigate the risk of unauthorized access, data loss and misuse.

2.4.4.sec=Understand the issues related to lawful requests for data based on law enforcement, public health, or national security concerns.

2.4.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s4]

2.5.Ti=Privacy, Data Protection and Confidentiality

2.5.1.sec=Comply with applicable privacy and data protection regulations at every stage of data sharing, and be in a position to provide assurances to citizens that confidentiality and privacy are appropriately protected when data are collected, stored, processed, and exchanged. Privacy and data protection safeguards should be proportionate to the nature and use of the data, whether identifiable, coded or anonymized.

2.5.2.sec=Forego any attempt to re-identify anonymized data unless where expressly authorized by law.

2.5.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s2]

2.6.Ti=Risk-Benefit Analysis

2.6.1.sec=Consider the realistic harms and benefits of data sharing on and with individuals, families and communities, including opportunity costs associated with both sharing and not sharing data. Potential realistic benefits may include development of new scientific knowledge and applications, enhanced efficiency, reproducibility and safety of research projects or processes, and more informed decisions about health care. Potential realistic harms may include invasions of privacy or breach of confidentiality and invalid conclusions about research projects.

2.6.2.sec=Conduct data sharing with a view towards minimizing harms and maximizing benefits to not just those who contribute their data, but also to society and health care systems as a whole, particularly where data pertains to disadvantaged people. Benefits arising from data sharing may not be uniformly distributed throughout communities around the world and may depend on the usability of data within a specified context, national priorities, as well as a specific community’s concern about health and interpretation of wellbeing.

2.6.3.sec=Undertake a proportionate assessment of the benefits and risks of harm in data sharing, which is periodically monitored according to the reasonable foreseeability of such harms and benefits. Such an assessment may also incorporate mechanisms that track subsequent harms, should they materialize, so as to help inform future policy.

2.6.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s3]

2.7.Ti=Recognition and Attribution

2.7.1.sec=Design systems of data sharing with a view towards recognition and attribution that are meaningful and appropriate to the medium or discipline concerned and which provide due credit and acknowledgement of all who contributed to the results.

2.7.2.sec=Extend recognition and attribution both to primary purposes and, as appropriate, to secondary or downstream uses and applications. All parties should act in good faith to ensure that any connections to original sources of data are maintained where appropriate, to  the extent permissible by law.

2.7.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s2]

2.8.Ti=Sustainability

2.8.1.sec=Ensure, where appropriate, the sustainability of the data generated for future use, through both archiving and using appropriate identification and retrieval systems, and through critical appraisal of the mechanisms and systems used for sharing genomic and healthrelated data.

2.8.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s1]

2.9.Ti=Education and Training

2.9.1.sec=Dedicate education and training resources so as to advance data sharing and data management and to constantly improve data quality and integrity. Education and training resources should also be dedicated to: fostering and maintaining good records about the effects and impact of data sharing; raising awareness about national health priorities and distribution of health services; building capacity and data sharing infrastructure in countries; and, working towards the building of an evidence base about the advantages and potential limitations of data sharing.

2.9.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s1]

2.10.Ti=Accessibility and Dissemination

2.10.1.sec=Make reasonable efforts to maximize the accessibility of data for research through lawful and proportionate data sharing.

2.10.2.sec=Promote collaborative partnerships and data sharing that can generate maximum benefit, along with the harmonization of deposit, management and access procedures and use as a means to promote accessibility.

2.10.3.sec=Seek to make data and research results widely available, including through publication and digital dissemination, whether positive, negative or inconclusive, depending on the nature and use of the data. Dissemination of data and research results should be conducted in a way that both promotes scientific collaboration, reproducibility and broad access to data, and yet minimizes obstacles to data sharing while minimizing harms and maximizing benefits to individuals, families and communities.

2.10.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s3]

2.=[G/Z/ol/10]

=[G/Z/ol/s2]
