
Ti=Libra Association Council

1.Ti=Council Membership

1.1.sec=To be a member of the council, one needs to have financial stake in the success of the network.

1.2.0.sec=Founding members:

1.2.1.sec=The initial members of the council are the Founding Members and serve as the network's initial validator node.

1.2.2.sec=To be such a node, an entity needs to make an investment of at least $10 million in the network through purchasing Libra Investment Tokens.

1.2.3.sec=Each $10 million investment entitles one vote in the council, subject to a cap (see below).

1.2.4.sec=The Libra Association Council will prevent related entities from presenting themselves as two distinct Founding Members in order to avoid the circumvention of the above measure.

1.2.5.sec=Investors who purchase the Libra Investment Tokens but initially choose not to operate a validator node and later decide to start operating one will then turn immediately into Founding Members, according to the same investment key and subject to the same voting cap described.

1.2.=[G/Z/ol/s5]

1.3.0.sec=As the Libra ecosystem grows, membership in the council will gradually transition to reflect the relative share of Libra held in custody by, or delegated to, a validator node.

1.3.1.sec=New members will be added to the council — representing the parties who hold Libra in custody and operate validator nodes — upon the achievement of certain network growth milestones, including the adoption by the council of a technical plan for becoming permissionless.

1.3.2.sec=The pace of transition, as well as the technical and network growth milestones, will be determined by the Libra Association Council. By the fifth anniversary of the network, at least 20 percent of the voting power in the council will be allocated to node operators based on the quantity of Libra held by them, not just the quantity of investment tokens.

1.3.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

1.4.0.sec=Irrespective of the Libra Investment Tokens and/or Libra held by it, a single Founding Member can only be represented by the greater of one vote or 1 percent of the total votes in the council. The cap does not apply to validator nodes that are not Founding Members, i.e. that join the network only through holding Libra in custody.

1.4.1.sec=This cap is designed to prevent concentration of voting power in the hands of one party. It does not limit the financial return received from the Libra Investment Tokens, which is proportional to the size of the investment.

1.4.2.sec=Founding Members who hold Libra Investment Tokens and/or Libra at a value that entitles them voting power exceeding the above cap will make the excess votes available to the Libra Association Board for delegation.

1.4.3.0.sec=The board, based on the recommendation of the Libra Social Impact Advisory Board (SIAB, see below), may delegate some of or all these votes to SIPs (see below) or research institutions, provided that:

1.4.3.1.sec=They are capable and committed to operate a validator node and, hence, participate in governance but are not able to make the minimum investment of $10 million;

1.4.3.2.sec=They meet the other eligibility criteria for a participating SIP or research institution (set here);

1.4.3.3.sec=SIPs and research institutions are subject to the same voting cap as Founding Members; and

1.4.3.4.sec=The aggregate voting power assigned to such SIPs and research institutions is not higher than one-third of the overall voting power in the council.

1.4.3.=[G/Z/ol/s4]

1.4.4.0.sec=The delegation of voting power under this scheme:

1.4.4.1.sec=Does not entitle a participating SIP to receive dividends associated with the Libra Investment Token.

1.4.4.2.sec=Can only be revoked by the council if a participating SIP or research institution no longer meets the validator node eligibility criteria, following the same process described below for removing Founding Members.

1.4.4.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

1.4.5.sec=Excess votes made available to the board and not delegated to SIPs or research institutions may be distributed by the board among other Founding Members equally to maintain the relative aggregate voting power of Founding Members compared to that of the other validator nodes.

1.4.=[G/Z/ol/s5]

1.5.sec=The Libra protocol is expected to have a limitation on the number of active validator nodes (and thus on the number of council members) for at least several years. The number is expected to grow over time. The council will define a limit as to the number of active nodes based on testing. From time to time, the council will update this limit. If this limit is exceeded, the council member to whom the fewest votes are assigned will be removed from the council until the number of members is under the limit. Ties will be broken by removing the member who has served for the shortest continuous duration.

1.6.sec=In order to prevent the number of inactive validator nodes in the network from growing to a level that could jeopardize the effectiveness of the consensus protocol, any member whose node has not participated in the consensus algorithm for 10 consecutive days may be automatically removed from the council by the Libra protocol. The member is free to rejoin once their node is operational.

1.7.sec=A party entitled to be represented in the council can delegate its voting power to another party.

1.8.sec=Members of the council are expected to assign a specific person to represent them. The representative can be replaced by the member at any time.

1.=[G/Z/ol/s8]

2.Ti=Roles & Authorities

2.0.sec=The council will have the following roles and authorities:

2.1.sec=Elect and remove members of the Libra Association Board.

2.2.sec=Appoint and remove the association's Managing Director, and set her compensation.

2.3.sec=Approve the budget of the association annually.

2.4.sec=Delegate permissions allowing components of the Libra Association to perform their respective duties — for example, the permission to mint Libra, to mint Libra Investment Tokens, or to pay a Founding Member from the incentive pool.

2.5.sec=Publish recommendations on behalf of the association suggesting that Libra clients should change the rules by which they determine the Libra Blockchain ledger, commonly known as a “hard fork.” This will allow the council to propose breaking changes to the Libra protocol or resolve a situation where compromised validator nodes have resulted in many signed versions of the Libra Blockchain.

2.6.sec=Activate features in the Libra protocol as deployed to the validators, using the vote of the council to trigger a smart contract that implements the feature.

2.7.sec=Collaborate with the developers of the Libra protocol to upgrade or replace the protocol. In particular, collaborate in order to meet the requirement of transitioning to permissionless node operation.

2.8.0.sec=Remove Founding Members (relevant only to validator nodes whose participation in the network stems from holding Libra Investment Tokens):

2.8.1.sec=A Founding Member that does not comply with the Founding Member eligibility criteria can be removed by a supermajority vote of the council. The recording of this vote on the Libra Blockchain will remove the member's node from the consensus algorithm.

2.8.2.sec=The removal of a Founding Member results in the immediate removal from the council of the council member representing that member.

2.8.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

2.9.sec=Veto or make decisions on behalf of the Libra Association Board.

2.10.0.sec=Make changes in the Libra Association guiding principles (subject to a supermajority vote), which is comprised of:

2.10.1.sec=The governance and assignment of roles within the association described in this document.

2.10.2.sec=Founding Members eligibility criteria.

2.10.3.sec=Incentives Distribution Policy.

2.10.4.sec=Reserve Management Policy.

2.10.=[G/Z/ol/s4]

2.11.sec=The council may create committees consisting of some of its members and assign/delegate to them any of its authorities except the authority to make decisions that require a supermajority vote.

2.=[G/Z/ol/s11]

3.Ti=Council Meetings

3.1.sec=The council will have its ordinary meetings biannually at times set by the Libra Association Board at least 25 business days in advance. The board or 10 percent of the council members can summon an extraordinary meeting of the council at least five business days in advance or call an immediate meeting/vote to address an emergency situation (e.g., an attack on the network). The council can decide to cancel or reschedule a future meeting that has already been scheduled.

3.2.sec=The meetings of the council will be held at a place and time established in the notice of the meeting. Council meetings will allow members to participate by video conference.

3.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

4.Ti=Voting

4.1.sec=Certain decisions listed above will require a supermajority of the council votes to support the decision. A supermajority is at least two-thirds of total votes of all council members.

4.2.0.sec=All other decisions will require a regular majority of the council votes, which is one of the following:

Note= - the original has a strange format of -OR- as a second paragraph and the second choice is the third paragraph).

4.2.1.sec=At least one-half of the members participating in a vote support the decision, provided that members with at least two-thirds of the total votes are represented at the meeting.

4.2.2.sec=-OR-

4.2.3.sec=At least one-half of total votes of all council members support the decision.

4.2.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

4.3.sec=To the extent that it is technically feasible, the Libra protocol will enable the council's vote to directly enact on-chain actions (e.g., the addition of new Founding Members). However, votes for “real world” decisions (e.g., the compensation of the Managing Director) may be recorded on the Libra Blockchain, or they may be recorded in the minutes of the relevant council meeting with the method to be selected by the council.

4.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

=[G/Z/ol-AA/4]
