Ti=Invoicing (Procedures for Payment)

0.1.sec=The period of performance for each invoice shall be for one calendar month. The Contractor shall submit only one invoice per month per order/contract.

0.2.sec=The Government reserves the right to audit, thus; the Contractor shall keep on file all backup support documentation for travels as applicable.

0.=[Z/paras/s2]

1.Ti=Content of Invoice

1.0.sec=The Contractor’s invoice will be submitted monthly for work performed the prior month. The contractor may invoice only for the hours, travel and unique services used in direct support of the task order. The invoice shall be submitted on official letterhead and shall include the following information at a minimum.

1.1.sec=Client Order ID Number

1.2.sec=ACT Number

1.3.sec=Prompt Payment Discount

1.4.sec=Remittance Address

1.5.sec=Period of Performance for Billing Period

1.6.sec=Point of Contact and Phone Number

1.7.sec=Invoice Amount

1.8.sec=Skill Level Name and Associated Skill Level Number (for T&M or Labor Hour)

1.9.sec=Actual Hours Worked During the Billing Period (for T&M or Labor Hour)

1.10.sec=Clearly indicate both the current invoice’s monthly “burn rate” and the total average monthly “burn rate” (for T&M or Labor Hour)

1.11.sec=Travel Itemized by Individual and Trip (if applicable)

1.12.sec=Supporting documentation for travel including travel approval and receipts (if applicable)

1.=[Z/ol-none/s12]

2.Ti=Invoice Submission

2.1.sec=All invoicing shall be done electronically. Password and electronic invoice access may be obtained through the {_AASBS} web portal.

2.2.sec=The Invoice and the Status Reports for the applicable billing period shall be entered into the {_AASBS} portal within 5 to 10 calendar days after the end of the month. The Contractor shall submit invoices electronically by logging into the {_AASBS} portal (https://portal.fas.gsa.gov), navigating to the appropriate order, and creating the invoice for that order and attach a copy of invoice, status reports with all required back-up documentation as applicable.

2.3.sec=The Contractor shall NOT submit any invoices directly to the GSA Finance Center (neither by mail nor via electronic submission). If the invoices are acceptable, then the Procurement Project Manager and {_COR} will approve them for payment and complete the information in the {_AASBS} portal.

2.=[Z/ol-none/s3]

3.Ti=Final Invoice

3.1.sec=Invoices for final payment must be so identified and submitted within 60 calendar days from task completion and no further charges are to be billed. A copy of the written acceptance of task completion must be attached to final invoices. The contractor shall request for an extension from the {_COR} for final invoices that may exceed the 60-day time frame.

3.2.sec=The Government reserves the right to require certification by a {_COR} before payment is processed, if necessary.

3.=[Z/ol/s2]

4.Ti=Close-out Procedures

4.1.sec=The Contractor shall submit a final invoice within 60 calendar days after the end of the performance period. After the final invoice has been paid the Contractor shall furnish a completed and signed Release of Claims (GSA Form 1142) to the Contracting Officer. This release of claims is due within 15 calendar days of final payment.

4.2.sec=Upon successful completion of task performance, the Contractor and Government may engage in celebratory dance, if they want to.

4.=[Z/ol/s2]

=[Z/ol/4]
