Ti=RECREATIONAL VEHICLE RENTAL AGREEMENT


0.sec={Intro.sec}

Intro.=[G/US-CA-MHP-CmA/Form/RV-RentalAgt/Sec/Intro/0.md]

1.=[G/US-CA-MHP-CmA/Form/RV-RentalAgt/Sec/Term/0.md]

2.=[G/US-CA-MHP-CmA/Form/RV-RentalAgt/Sec/Rent/0.md]

3.=[G/US-CA-MHP-CmA/Form/RV-RentalAgt/Sec/Utility/0.md]

4.=[G/US-CA-MHP-CmA/Form/RV-RentalAgt/Sec/EntryOnSpace/0.md]

5.=[G/US-CA-MHP-CmA/Form/RV-RentalAgt/Sec/Termination-First30Days/0.md]

6.=[G/US-CA-MHP-CmA/Form/RV-RentalAgt/Sec/Tenant-RemoveUnit/0.md]

7.Ti=REMOVAL ON SALE OR TRANSFER OF MOBILEHOME OR PARK; California Civil Code Section 798.73

7.=[G/US-CA-MHP-CmA/Law/CA-Civil-Code/798-73.md]


8.Ti=TERMINATION OF THIS AGREEMENT BY TENANT

8.sec=Tenant shall give no less than thirty (30) days written notice of intent to vacate.

9.Ti=NO ASSIGNING, RENTING OR SUBLETTING

9.sec=Tenant shall not assign, sublease or otherwise rent all or any portion of the recreational vehicle or the Space. At all times, Tenant must be a “legal” or “registered” owner of the recreational vehicle and that person must regularly occupy it.

10.Ti=NO WASTE, NUISANCE, OR DISTURBANCE OF THE PEACE

10.sec=Tenant shall do nothing which constitute waste, nuisance, disturbance of the peace or unreasonable annoyance to Park employees or others.  Tenant shall do nothing to cause or allow damage to the Space, Park or other property. Tenant shall do nothing which may cause cancellation or increase in the rate of insurance or increase costs of maintenance and repair to Lessor. No flammable, combustible, explosive or environmentally hazardous fluids, chemical or substance may be stored. 

11.Ti=USES AND ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED

11.sec=The recreational vehicle and the premises rented shall be used for the private residential purposes of Tenant and no business or commercial activity of any nature shall be conducted thereon. No persons other than Tenant and listed occupants may reside at the Space.

12.Ti=SECURITY INTEREST IN RECREATIONAL VEHICLE

12.sec=Where applicable, Lessor shall have and is hereby granted a security interest pursuant to the Uniform Commercial Code in the recreational vehicle and the contents therein for the proper charges, fees and rents due from a defaulting occupant or Tenant. This security interest is in addition to, and without limitation upon, the lien created by California Civil Code §799.75.

13.Ti=FIXTURES AND IMPROVEMENTS

13.sec=All plants, shrubs, and trees planted on the premises as well as all structure, including fences permanently embedded in the ground, blacktop, or concrete, or any structure permanently attached to the ground, including all fixtures, are Lessor’s property that may not be severed or removed by the Tenant.  Tenant shall maintain all fixtures and shall be solely responsible for each of them. 

14.=[G/US-CA-MHP-CmA/Form/RV-RentalAgt/Sec/Waiver/0.md]

15.Ti=TIME IS OF THE ESSENCE

15.sec=Time is of the essence of this agreement.


16.Ti=INTERPRETATION

16.sec=Each provision of this agreement is separate, distinct, and individually enforceable. In the event any provision is declared to be unlawful or unenforceable, the validity of all other provisions shall not be affected. This agreement is intended to be fair, and shall not be construed except as though drafted by both parties together.

17.Ti=INSPECTION OF THE PREMISES

17.sec=By signing this agreement, Tenant acknowledges Tenant has carefully inspected the SPACE to be rented and all the PARK’s facilities and have found them to be in every respect in good order and well maintained. Tenant agrees at the termination of this Agreement to peaceably surrender the Space in a clean and well-maintained condition.

18.Ti=SUBORDINATION

18.sec=This agreement and any leasehold interest which may be created by it shall be subordinate to nay encumbrance of record before or after the date of this agreement affecting the Park. Tenant agrees to execute and deliver any documents required to effectuate any subordination promptly upon request.  Further, Tenant hereby irrevocably appoints Lessor as special attorney-in-fact to execute and deliver such documents or instruments.

19.Ti=INTEGRATION

19.sec=Tenant agrees this Agreement contains the entire agreement between the parties regarding the rental of Space. All prior negotiations or statements or agreements are conclusively deemed to have been superseded by this Agreement.


20.Ti=ALTERATION OF THIS AGREEMENT

20.sec=This Agreement may be altered only by notice from Lessor, signed agreement or by operation of law.

21.Ti=ATTORNEY’S FEES

21.sec=In the event of any litigation between Lessor and Tenant, the prevailing party shall be entitled to be awarded attorney’s fees and costs.

22.Ti=CIVIL CODE NOTICE

22.sec=Pursuant to Section 290.46 of the Penal Code, information about specified registered sex offenders is made available to the public via an Internet Web site maintained by the Department of Justice at www.meganslaw.ca.gov. Depending on an offender’s criminal history, this information will include either the address at which the offender resides or the community of residence and ZIP code in which he or she resides. 

23.Ti=ALTERATION AND ADDITIONS

23.sec=It is illegal to add a cabana or add on unit to recreational vehicle. No such add-on units, however described or identified are allowed. Any existing conditions to the contrary may not be relied on as permissible practice. Tenant agrees not to make any alterations, improvements, additions or utility installations to, on or about the Space or recreational vehicle, nor install, remove or change any existing improvements, or modify the drainage or landscaping. 

24.Ti=DRUG ENFORCEMENT POLICY

24.sec=LESSOR COOPERATES WITH ALL LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES IN THE IDENTIFICATION AND APPREHENSION OF ALL PERPETRATORS INVOLVED IN THE USE, POSSESSION, MANUFACTURE OR SALE OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES AND OTHER ILLEGAL SUBSTANCES. Lessor will further cooperate to the fullest extent of the law with any efforts to prosecute such persons and in the seizure of any recreational vehicle or other property as an instrumentality of such crimes.

25.Ti=TENANT REPRESENTATIONS - UPDATE INFORMATION

25.sec=You represent and warrant that the information you have provide to us regarding you and your household members is true and correct.  Tenant shall promptly notify Lessor, in writing, of any change of this information. 

26.Ti=PATRIOT ACT COVENANT

26.sec=Tenant warrants that each and every “person” or “entity” affiliated with Tenant is: (A) not a “blocked” person listed in the Annex to Executive Order Nos. 12947, 13099 and 13224; (B) in full compliance with applicable Patriot Rules and all other requirements contained in the rules and regulations of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (“OFAC”); (C) not a person who has been determined by competent authority to be subject to the prohibitions contained in the Patriot Rules. At all times throughout the term, no funds of Tenant or any member that are used to the rents and other charges of the tenancy shall be derived from any unlawful activity, with the result that payment is prohibited by law, or, this Agreement is in violation of law and subject to immediate cancellation or termination.

27.=[G/US-CA-MHP-CmA/Form/RV-RentalAgt/Sec/TenantFunctions-Core/0.md]

28.=[G/US-CA-MHP-CmA/Form/RV-RentalAgt/Sec/TenantFunctions-NonCore/0.md]

00.1.Sec=I HAVE READ, UNDERSTAND AND AGREE TO ALL FOREGOING TERMS AND PROVISIONS.

00.2.=[G/US-CA-MHP-CmA/Form/RV-RentalAgt/Sec/TenantSign/0.md]

00.3.Ti=APPROVED BY MANAGEMENT:

00.3.1.sec=Dated:			

00.3.2.sec=By:													

00.3.=[G/Z/paras/s2]

00.4.Sec=EQUAL HOUSING OPPORTUNITY: WE DO BUSINESS IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE STATE AND FEDERAL FAIR HOUSING LAWS. IT IS ILLEGAL TO DISCRIMINATE AGAINST ANY PERSON BECAUSE OF RACE, COLOR, RELIGION, SEX, SEXUAL ORIENTATION, HANDICAP OR DISABILITY, FAMILIAL STATUS, SOURCE OF INCOME, NATIONAL ORIGIN, ANCESTRY OR FOR ARBITRARY REASONS UNDER STATE LAW – DISCRIMINATORY ACTIONS OF THE MANAGEMENT, TENANT(S), RESIDENT(S), GUEST(S) OR OTHERS MAY BE REPORTED TO OWNER’S AGENTS, OR THE DEPARTMENT OF FAIR EMPLOYMENT AND HOUSING. MANAGEMENT WILL NOT AT ANY TIME UNLAWFULLY ADMINISTER, ENFORCE OR EXPRESS ANY PREFERENCE WITH RESPECT TO EXISTING OR PROSPECTIVE TENANTS, RESIDENTS, OR GUESTS BASED ON PROTECTED CLASS STATUS AS DEFINED UNDER SUCH LAWS. NO SUCH UNLAWFUL ACTIVITY BY OTHER PERSONS WHETHER RESIDING IN OR DOING BUSINESS IN THE PARK OR OTHERWISE IS PERMITTED; ANY UNLAWFUL DISCRIMINATION KNOWN OR REASONABLY SUSPECTED MAY BE REPORTED TO APPROPRIATE GOVERNMENT AUTHORITIES FOR PROSECUTION.

00.=[G/Z/paras/4]

=[G/Z/ol/28]