Ti=Programs

1.sec=A {_Program} is an {P1.Handle}-branded computer program and related material available for license from {P1.Handle} subject to the payment of charges. {_Program} details are described in an {_Attachment} called License Information (LI). {_Programs} do not include {_Machine_Code} or {_Project_Materials}. {_Programs} are copyrighted and licensed (not sold). When {P1.Handle} accepts an order for a {_Program}, {P1.Handle} grants {P2.Handle} a nonexclusive license to: a) use the {_Program} only up to its authorizations and subject to its LI; b) make and install copies to support such authorized use; and c) make a backup copy. {_Programs} may be used by {P2.Handle}, its authorized employees and contractors only within {P2.Handle}’s Enterprise, and not to provide hosting or timesharing services to any third party. {P2.Handle} may not sublicense, assign, or transfer the license for any {_Program}. Additional rights may be available from {P1.Handle} for additional fees or under different terms. {P1.Handle} does not grant unrestricted rights to use the {_Program} nor has {P2.Handle} paid for all of the economic value of the {_Program}. Certain {_Programs} may contain third party code licensed under separate agreements identified in the LI.

2.0.sec=The license granted for a {_Program} is subject to {P2.Handle}:

2.1.sec=reproducing copyright notices and other markings;

2.2.sec=ensuring anyone who uses the {_Program} does so only for {P2.Handle}’s authorized use and complies with the license;

2.3.sec=not reverse assembling, reverse compiling, translating, or reverse engineering the {_Program}; and

2.4.sec=not using any of the elements of the {_Program} or related licensed material separately from the {_Program}.

2.=[G/Z/ol-a/s4] 

3.sec=The metric applicable to a {_Program} license is specified in an {_Attachment_or_TD}. All licenses on a server or capacity based metric must be licensed to the full capacity of the server on which the {_Program} is installed, unless subcapacity usage is available from {P1.Handle} and {P2.Handle} complies with the applicable sub-capacity requirements.

=[G/Z/ol/s3] 
