Note=Article 5 Annotation: A ‘good practice’ gleaned from successful data sharing efforts involves identifying intellectual property rights implicated by data sharing activities and agreeing how the parties will handle such rights. This provision involves the development of a management plan for intellectual property rights (included as Annex C of the Model Agreement) for each data sharing activity planned. The management plan requires identification of intellectual property rights affected or created by data sharing (e.g. copyright in the data produced and shared) and a description of how rights will be assigned and exploited. Effective management of intellectual property rights can play a role in benefits sharing (see Article 6 below).

Ti=Intellectual Property Rights Management Plan

1.Ti=Establishing an Intellectual Property Rights Management Plan

1.sec=For each {_Activity}, the {_Parties} shall develop and implement a plan for the management of intellectual property rights and include the plan as Annex C of the {_Agreement} (“Intellectual Property Rights Management Plan”). This plan shall include the elements described in Articles 5.2 and 5.3 as well as other components needed for an {_Activity}.

2.Ti=Identification of Intellectual Property Rights Implicated by an {_Activity}

2.sec=The Intellectual Property Rights Management Plan shall identify any intellectual property rights possessed by each {_Party} which will be used in an {_Activity}. Such rights could include, for example, copyright a {_Party} has in software programs or existing datasets intended for use in an {_Activity}. 

3.Ti=Assigning Intellectual Property Rights Produced during an {_Activity}

3.sec=The Intellectual Property Rights Management Plan shall describe how the {_Parties} will assign and permit exploitation of intellectual property rights an {_Activity} might create. For example, an {_Activity} might generate new datasets, algorithms, software programs, or research papers for which the {_Parties} have or could obtain copyrights. The Intellectual Property Rights Management Plan shall indicate how the {_Parties} will allocate ownership of such intellectual property rights and how the {_Parties} will allow others to use information protected by such rights (e.g. royalty-free licences).

=[G/Z/ol/3]
