Ti=General

1.sec={_Parties} will not disclose confidential information without a separate, signed confidentiality agreement. If confidential information is exchanged in connection with {_the_Agreement}, the applicable confidentiality agreement is incorporated into, and subject to, this agreement.

2.sec={P2.Handle} accepts an Attachment or {_TD} by ordering, enrolling, using, or making a payment for, the product, offering or service. Since this agreement may apply to many future orders, {P1.Handle} may modify this agreement by providing {P2.Handle} at least three months’ written notice. Changes are not retroactive; they apply, as of the effective date, only to new orders, ongoing services that do not expire, and renewals. For transactions with a defined renewable contract period, {P2.Handle} may request that {P1.Handle} defer the change effective date until the end of the current contract period. {P2.Handle} accepts changes by placing new orders or continuing use after the change effective date or allowing transactions to renew after receipt of the change notice. Except as provided above, all changes to the agreement must be in writing accepted by both {_parties}. If there is a conflict, an Attachment or {_TD} prevails over the terms of this agreement. {P1.Handle} is an independent contractor, not {P2.Handle}’s agent, joint venturer, partner, or fiduciary, and does not undertake to perform any of {P2.Handle}’s regulatory obligations, or assume any responsibility for {P2.Handle}’s business or operations. Each {_party} is responsible for determining the assignment of its personnel and contractors, and for their direction, control, and compensation.

3.sec={P1.Handle} maintains a robust set of business conduct and related guidelines covering conflicts of interest, market abuse; antibribery & corruption; and fraud. {P1.Handle} and its personnel comply with such policies and require contractors to have similar policies.

4.sec={P1.Handle} Business Partners are independent from {P1.Handle} and unilaterally determine their prices and terms. {P1.Handle} is not responsible for their actions, omissions, statements, or offerings.

5.sec={P2.Handle} is responsible for obtaining all necessary permissions to use, provide, store and process content in {_Cloud}, other Services, maintenance, or {_Program} support, and grants {P1.Handle} permission to do the same. {P2.Handle} is responsible for adequate content back-up. Some of {P2.Handle}’s content may be subject to governmental regulation or may require security measures beyond those specified by {P1.Handle} for an offering. {P2.Handle} will not input or provide such content unless {P1.Handle} has first agreed in writing to implement additional required security measures.

6.sec={P1.Handle} and its affiliates, and their subcontractors, may process and store business contact information of {P2.Handle} personnel in connection with the performance of {_this_Agreement} wherever they do business. {P1.Handle} may use personnel and resources in locations worldwide and {_third_party} suppliers to support the delivery of products and services.

7.sec=Neither {_party} may assign {_the_Agreement}, in whole or in part, without the prior written consent of the other. Assignment of {P1.Handle} rights to receive payments and by {P1.Handle} in conjunction with the sale of the portion of {P1.Handle}’s business that includes a product or service is not restricted.

8.sec={_The_Agreement} applies to {P1.Handle} and {P2.Handle} (the signatories below) and their respective Enterprise companies who avail themselves of {_the_Agreement}. The signatories shall coordinate the activities of Enterprise companies under {_the_Agreement}. Enterprise companies include (i) companies within the same country that {P2.Handle} or {P1.Handle} control (by owning greater than 50% of the voting shares), and (ii) any other entity that controls, is controlled by or is under common control as {P2.Handle} or {P1.Handle} and has signed a participation Attachment.

9.sec=All notices under {_the_Agreement} must be in writing and sent to the address below, unless a {_party} designates in writing a different address. The {_parties} consent to the use of electronic means and facsimile transmissions for communications as a signed writing. Any reproduction of {_the_Agreement} made by reliable means is considered an original. {_The_Agreement} supersedes any course of dealing, discussions or representations between the {_parties}. No right or cause of action for any {_third_party} is created by {_the_Agreement} or any transaction under it. Neither {_party} will bring a legal action arising out of or related to {_the_Agreement} more than two years after the cause of action arose. Neither {_party} is responsible for failure to fulfill its nonmonetary obligations due to causes beyond its control. Each {_party} will allow the other reasonable opportunity to comply before it claims the other has not met its obligations. Where approval, acceptance, consent, access, cooperation or similar action by either {_party} is required, such action will not be unreasonably delayed or withheld.

=[G/Z/ol/s9]
