Ti=Security Technology Building Blocks 

0.1.sec=This section provides guidance on implementing security services within an operational stakeholder’s organization and across the GA4GH interconnected community. 

0.2.sec=Each stakeholder should perform a comprehensive risk assessment at least annually and should assess potential risk impacts whenever significant changes are made to network and system software or hardware. 

0.=[G/Z/paras/s2]
 
1.Ti=Identity Management 

1.0.sec=The effectiveness of the *Data Security Infrastructure Policy* ultimately is dependent upon the degree to which the actors (individuals and software services) are known and can be trusted to conform to applicable policy. 

1.1.sec=Each API exposed by data and application services within the GA4GH community must have the capability to electronically authenticate its fully qualified domain name using a server certificate or, within the EU, a qualified electronic signature, as defined in Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions in the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93/EC{FtNt.7.Xnum}. 

1.2.sec=Each data processor must authenticate the identity of individuals and software accessing data and services under that processor’s control. 

1.3.sec=Data processors should externalize authentication and authorization services to trusted identity providers and brokers. 

1.4.sec=The level of assurance to which individual identities will be established (i.e., identity proofing) and authenticated must be consistent with the level of risk associated with the actions to be performed by that individual. Each data processor is encouraged to use the US National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special Publication 800-63-3 {FtNt.8.Xnum} as guidance in determining the appropriate level of assurance required for identity proofing, authentication, and federation. 

1.5.sec=Data processors should use the *GA4GH Authentication and Authorization Infrastructure* (AAI) standard {FtNt.9.Xnum} to federate identity authentication and service authorization. Data processors should also use GA4GH standards for representing researcher identity attributes in OpenID Connect (OIDC) claims {FtNt.10.Xnum}, and data use ontology (DUO) {FtNt.11.Xnum} for representing security and privacy attributes of shared data. 

1.=[G/Z/ol/s5]

2.Ti=Authorization and Access Control 

2.1.sec=Each data processor must implement access control policies and mechanisms to ensure that only authorized users (human user or software client) may access data and services authorized and provided through the GA4GH community, and that each authenticated user is given access to all and only data and services to which it has been authorized. 

2.2.sec=Access authorizations may be based on organization, individual user, role, location and context (e.g., purpose, authorization time limits). 

2.3.sec=Each data processor must control the access to genomic and health-related data in accordance with applicable law and the personal authorizations associated with the data. 

2.4.sec=Each data processor must assure that any disclosure of identifiable data includes the personal authorization rules the recipient must enforce with respect to access to and use of that data. 

2.5.sec=Each data processor with whom genomic or health-related data is shared must control access to and use of that data in accordance with the personal authorization rules (i.e., consents, permissions) associated with the data. 

2.6.sec=Each data controller must put in place policies and procedures for determining whether a requesting data processor (human user or software client) is granted access to datasets and applications, and for authorizing rights and privileges associated with that access, in accordance with relevant jurisdictional laws, GA4GH policies, institutional policies, and data controller authorizations. 

2.7.sec=Requests for access to data through an API should be communicated in a JSON structure, as specified in the *GA4GH Authentication and Authorization Infrastructure* (AAI) standard {FtNt.9.Xnum}, and should include, at a minimum: (1) the authenticated identity and attributes of the requester (packaged in OpenID Connect tokens, using GA4GH *Researcher Identity* semantics {FtNt.12.Xnum}); (2) identification of requested resource; and (3) a description of intended use, represented in accordance with *GA4GH Data-Use* semantics {FtNt.11.Xnum}. 

2.8.sec=As a prerequisite to obtaining data access, each data processor should have attested that (1) data will be used only by the authorized requester; and (2) any data persisted on a user device will be disposed of in accordance with the *Privacy and Security Policy*. 

2.9.sec=Each data controller must assign to each data processor the minimum access rights and privileges necessary for the requested use, consistent with the user’s authenticated identity, attributes, and context. 

2.10.sec=Each data processor must configure service APIs and service platforms so that they allow access consistent with the *Privacy and Security Policy* and the *GA4GH AAI Standard*, while blocking inappropriate uses and accesses. 

2.11.sec=OpenID Connect tokens issued by trusted identity providers or brokers may be used as a basis for authorizing data processors access rights and privileges. For example, a Research Passport issued through the UK National Institute of Health Research (NIHR) Research Passport System {FtNt.13.Xnum}, might be used as the basis for authorizing researchers access rights and privileges to passport holders. 

2.12.sec=Each data processor should provide publicly accessible documentation of its policies and procedures for adjudicating requests for access to data and services. 

2.=[G/Z/ol/s12]

3.Ti=Privacy Protection 

3.1.sec=Each data controller and data processor should use consent-management, access control, usage monitoring, auditing mechanisms, and other privacy-protecting mechanisms to help ensure that private and sensitive data are collected, used, shared, and reused only in accordance with the permissions granted by the individual (or authorized representative) to whom the data pertains, and in accordance with applicable law and institutional policies. Private and sensitive data include both personal data, such as genomic and health-related data, and data considered private and confidential by the data holder or jurisdictional law, such as, for example, data governed under the European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) {FtNt.14.Xnum}, under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) {FtNt.15.Xnum}, under appendix J of the Security and Privacy Controls for Federal Information Systems and Organizations {FtNt.16.Xnum}, under the Australian Information Commissioner Act (AICA) {FtNt.17.Xnum}, or any other similar law. 

3.2.sec=Each data controller should ensure that any procedures used to eliminate or minimize direct and/or indirect identifiers from data (e.g., pseudonymisation, de-identification, anonymisation) are performed at the earliest practical point in the workflow to minimize potential exposure of individual identity. 

3.3.sec=Each data controller should maintain a data inventory that includes defined sensitivity of data, restrictions on storage and data flows, and contracted data services responsible for enforcing these restrictions. 

3.4.sec=Each data controller should monitor data usage to detect attempts to access or use data other than as authorized, including attempts to analytically derive identity. 

3.5.sec=Each data controller and data processor should implement mechanisms to prevent the identity of individuals from being leaked through covert means such as metadata, URLs, message headers, and inference attacks. 

3.6.sec=Each data controller and data processor should implement safeguards to reduce the likelihood that de-identified, pseudonymized, or anonymised data can be re-identified through the query results or data record linkage (to prevent attacks such as Bustamante {FtNt.18.Xnum} and Homer {FtNt.19.Xnum}). To this end, they should use privacy-preserving record linkage methods {FtNt.20.Xnum} and/or any other methods to reduce the risk of re-identification under formal frameworks such as differential privacy {FtNt.21.Xnum}. 

3.7.sec=Each data controller must obtain the individual authorisations (e.g., consents) required by applicable law and institutional policy, and for conveying these authorisations, or a link to these authorisations, along with the associated data. 

3.8.sec=Each data controller must update provenance and confidentiality metadata associated with the data under its control, preferably using HL7 FHIR provenance {FtNt.22.Xnum} and confidentiality {FtNt.23.Xnum} codes. 

3.=[G/Z/ol/s8]

4.Ti=Audit Logs 

4.1.sec=Each data processor must record and maintain a log of security-relevant events involving access to or use of application and data services under that provider’s control. 

4.2.sec=For each security-relevant event, the data processor should record the following data elements: user identity, type of event, date and time, success or failure indication, origination of event, name of affected data, system component, or resource {FtNt.24.Xnum}. 

4.3.sec=Each data processor should retain the audit log history for at least one year, with a minimum of three months immediately available for analysis (for example, online, archived, or restorable from backup). This best practice must be interpreted within the constraints of applicable law. 

4.4.sec=Each data processor must monitor activity on systems and networks under its control to detect potential security breaches and data misuse. 

4.5.0.sec=Each data processor should have a layered approach to instrumentation including, but not exclusive to; 

4.5.1.sec= Log analysis 

4.5.2.sec= Exception handling analysis 

4.5.3.sec= Web Application Firewalls/Intrusion Detection Systems 

4.5.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

4.6.sec=Data processors’ audit log records should be integratable with existing enterprise security monitoring tools. 

4.7.sec=Data controllers and their processors must jointly implement the capability to generate an accounting of accesses to and disclosures of data that may be associated with the individual’s identity. 

4.=[G/Z/ol/s7]

5.Ti= Data Integrity 

5.1.sec=Each data processor must protect the integrity of genomic and health-related data that it holds, uses, or transmits. 

5.2.sec=Each data processor that transmits or receives transmissions containing genomic or health-related data should use a collision-resistant hash function that complies with the Secure Hash Standard {FtNt.25.Xnum} by NIST (e.g., IETF SHA-2 {FtNt.26.Xnum}) to verify the integrity of the transmission. 

5.3.sec=Each data controller must ensure the accuracy and verifiability of data and associated metadata. 

5.4.sec=Each data controller must ensure that data provenance information is associated with data made available to consumers. 

5.=[G/Z/ol/s4]

6.Ti=Non-repudiation 

6.1.sec=Each data processor must have the capability to digitally sign content using a qualified electronic signature, as defined in Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions in the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93/EC {FtNt.7.Xnum}. 

6.2.sec=Data processors who offer downloadable software must digitally sign the downloadable files using a qualified electronic signature, as defined in Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions in the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93/EC{FtNt.7.Xnum}. 

6.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

7.Ti=Cryptographic Controls 

7.1.sec=Each data processor must ensure that any cryptographic controls used are compliant with all applicable standards, agreements, laws, and regulations. 

7.2.sec=Each data processor that stores genomic or health-related data must use strong encryption (cryptography based on industry-tested and accepted algorithms, along with strong key lengths and proper key-management practices) to encrypt the data for storage {FtNt.27.Xnum}. 

7.3.sec=Each data processor must ensure that plaintext data encryption keys are stored outside the system in which data encrypted with those keys are persisted. When a key hierarchy is used, plaintext key encryption keys should be stored separately on the system storing data encryption keys. 

7.4.sec=Data processors should use privacy-preserving encryption methods (e.g., homomorphic encryption {FtNt.28.Xnum}, secure multi-party computation {FtNt.29.Xnum}) when applicable and practical. 

7.=[G/Z/ol/s4]

8.Ti=Communications Security 

8.1.sec=Each data processor must ensure that communication channels are secured commensurate with the level of risk associated with the content being transmitted. 

8.2.sec=Each data processor that transmits unencrypted genomic or health-related data must protect its transmission (e.g., using IPsec {FtNt.30.Xnum}, {FtNt.31.Xnum} or Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol {FtNt.32.Xnum}). 

8.3.sec=Any electronic mail containing genomic, health-related, or other sensitive data must be secured (e.g., using S/MIME Version 2 {FtNt.33.Xnum}, {FtNt.34.Xnum}). 

8.=[G/Z/ol/s3]


=[G/Z/ol/8]
