Ti=General

1.Ti=Entire Agreement; Amendments

1.sec=This {_Agreement} is the entire agreement and understanding between the parties with respect to the subject matter described in this {_Agreement} and supersedes all prior agreements, understandings, promises and representations with respect thereto. Any amendment to the {_Agreement} must be in writing and is executed by authorized representatives of both parties.

2.Ti=Counterparts; Electronic Signatures

2.sec=This {_Agreement} may be executed in any number of counterparts. which, when taken together, will constitute one original. This {_Agreement} may be executed by PDF format via email or other electronically transmitted signatures and such signatures will be deemed to bind each party to this {_Agreement} as if they were original signatures.

3.Ti=No Third-Party Beneficiaries

3.Alt1.sec={3Party.1.sec}.

3.Alt2.sec={3Party.1.sec}, {3Party.2.sec}.

3.=[G/Z/Alt/3]

3.SecName=9.3

3Party.1.sec=No person or entity who is not a party to this {_Agreement} will have the right to enforce any provision of this {_Agreement}

3Party.2.sec=except that third party users of the {_Trained_Model} are third-party beneficiaries of Section 4(b)

Comment: As a default, this form does not permit any third party to enforce the terms of this Agreement, since many of the terms relate to specific obligations as between the Data Provider and Data User (e.g., Data Provider’s obligation to provide the data, or any commitments given by the Data Provider as to quality or provenance, and Data User’s obligations with respect to retention and protection of the data). However, end users of the Trained Model should be able to invoke Section 4b in the event a Data Provider claims a proprietary interest in downstream works or other creations and so that has been added as an exception.

4.Ti=Relationship of the Parties

4.sec=The parties are independent contractors and the relationship between the two parties under this {_Agreement} will not constitute a partnership or agency. Neither party will have the authority to take any action that will be binding on the other party.

5.Ti=Assignment

5.sec=Neither party may assign this {_Agreement}, in whole or in part, to any third party without the prior written consent of the other party.

Note=[OPTIONAL:]

6.Ti=Limitations of Liability

6.sec=Except in the event of {_Data_User}’s material breach of Section 6 or unauthorized use of the {_Training_Data}: (i) in no event will either party be liable for indirect, incidental, special, punitive, or consequential damages, including loss of use, loss of profits, or interruption of business, however caused or on any theory of liability in relation to this {_Agreement}, and (ii) to the extent permitted by applicable law, each party’s total liability for all claims relating to this {_Agreement} will be limited to {LimitLiability.Max.$}.

Comment: This optional clause should be included when the parties wish to exclude the recovery of indirect damages and/or to cap liability at a specific dollar amount. This clause has not been made mandatory as the nature and sensitivity of the Training Data may drive parties to adopt different approaches. There may also be instances in which the parties may wish to include the provision but to make it one-way in favor of Data Provider, e.g., where the Data Provider is providing the data strictly “as is” but could be exposed to losses if the data is misused by Data User.

=[G/Z/ol/6]
