Ti=ARTICLE 8 – Corporate Records and Reports

1.Ti=Records Required to Be Kept

1.0.sec=The Cooperative shall keep at its principal office:

1.1.sec=The original or a copy of its Articles and Bylaws as amended to date;

1.2.sec=Adequate and correct books and records of account;

1.3.sec=Minutes of the proceedings of its Members, Board, and committees of the Board; and

1.4.sec=A record of its Members, providing their names and addresses.

1.00.sec=Minutes and other books and records shall be kept either in written form or in any other form capable of being converted into clearly legible tangible form or in any combination of the foregoing.

1.=[G/Z/ol/s4]

[Explanatory Note: See Code Section 12590 for record keeping requirements. ] 

2.Ti=Inspection Rights

2.1.sec=The Cooperative’s Bylaws and Articles shall be open to inspection by the Members at all reasonable times during office hours.  

2.2.sec=Any such inspection may be made in person or by agent or attorney and the right of inspection includes the right to copy and make extracts.

2.3.sec=The accounting books and records and minutes of proceedings of the Members and the Board and committees of the Board shall be open to inspection upon the written demand on the Cooperative of any Member at any reasonable time, for a purpose reasonably related to such person’s interests as a Member.

2.4.sec=Every Director shall have the absolute right at any reasonable time to inspect and copy all books, records and documents of every kind and to inspect the physical properties of the Cooperative.

2.=[G/Z/ol/s4]

3.Ti=Annual Report

3.1.sec=The annual report shall be prepared no later than 120 days after the close of the Cooperative’s fiscal year and shall be distributed to Members at or before their next meeting.

3.2.0.sec=The annual report shall contain in appropriate detail:

3.2.1.sec=A balance sheet as of the end of the fiscal year;

3.2.2.sec=An income statement;

3.2.3.sec=A cash flow statement of the fiscal year;

3.2.4.sec=A statement of where the names and addresses of current Members are located; and 

3.2.5.sec=An annual statement of transactions and indemnifications to “interested persons” as defined by law. 

3.2.=[G/Z/ol-a/s5]

3.3.sec=For fiscal years in which the Cooperative has (at any given time) over 25 Members, the Cooperative shall notify each Member of his/her right to receive an annual financial report.

3.4.sec=The annual report shall be accompanied by any pertinent report by independent accountants.

3.5.sec=If there is no such report from an independent accountant, an authorized Officer of the Cooperative shall certify that the annual report was prepared from the books and records of the Cooperative, without audit.

3.=[G/Z/ol/s5]

=[G/Z/ol/3]


[Explanatory Note: See Code Section 12591 for financial report requirements.  Note that a Balance Sheet should show assets, liabilities, and balances in Members’ capital accounts as of the last day of the period covered in the statement.] 
