Ti=<center>{Legend.sec}<br><br>{Doc.Ti}</center><br>

Legend.sec=IN ORDER TO STREAMLINE THE REVIEW PROCESS AND TO PREVENT DELAY PLEASE MAKE SURE ALL FIELDS ARE COMPLETED IN ENTIRETY, SIGN AND DATE.  IF ANY QUESTIONS CONTACT NED WHALEN AT THE TECHNOLOGY VENTURES OFFICE 3-9557 OR E-MAIL US AT TVO_PATENTS@BROWN.EDU.

Doc.Ti=DISCLOSURE FORM


1.Ti=Title of Invention:

1.sec=Please  give a short descriptive title 




2.Ti= Essence of the Invention:

2.sec=Please describe the invention outlining problem it solves and why did you decide to solve it, how it works and it advantages and improvements over existing methods, devices or materials.  Attach any detailed description and /or drawings:


3.Ti=Novelty and major advantages:

3.sec=<i>Please discuss the novel or unusual features of the invention and explain how it differs from or improves upon existing technologies. Be sure to include all specific features that you believe to be novel. Also describe what technical or economic advantages your invention may have.</i>

4.Ti=Date of Invention Disclosure submission:

5.Ti=Inventorship:

5.1.Ti=PRIMARY INVESTIGATOR

5.1.=[G/BrownEdu/InventionDisclosure/Sec/InventorDataForm/0.md]

5.=[G/Z/ol/1]

6.Ti=Funding and Support:

6.0.sec=__Yes  __No <i>(If yes (the following are mandatory fields), include all the sponsors and applicable contract or grant numbers if the invention was developed with the use of federal, foundation or industry sponsored research grant or contract funds.  Indicate if the support was provided to another institution other than Brown.  (Brown may have obligations to providers of all such support.  If only Brown internal funds were used, please state so.)</i>

6.1.=[G/BrownEdu/InventionDisclosure/Sec/GrantDataForm/0.md]

6.=[G/Z/ol/1]

7.Ti=Use of Proprietary Materials:

7.sec=__Yes  __No <i>(If yes, indicate whether any aspect of the invention is based on, or was made possible by the use of proprietary materials or special techniques obtained from a third party, a company or another institution.)<br>Proprietary materials may have been made available by industry-sponsored research agreements (SRAs), material transfer agreements (MTAs), etc.  (Brown may have obligations to providers to such proprietary materials.)</i>

7.1.=[G/BrownEdu/InventionDisclosure/Sec/ProprietaryMaterialDataForm/0.md]

7.=[G/Z/ol/1]

8.Ti=Record of Invention

8.=[G/BrownEdu/InventionDisclosure/Sec/InventionDataForm/0.md]

9.Ti=Public Disclosures *** For legal purposes    ***

9.0.sec=<i>Have you disclosed this invention to persons outside of Brown or planning to disclose in near future?  __Yes  __No. If yes (the following are mandatory field):</i>

9.1.=[G/BrownEdu/InventionDisclosure/Sec/PublicDisclosureDataForm/0.md]

9.=[G/Z/ol/1]

10.Ti=Prior Art

10.0.sec=Please provide details of any publications/patents known to you which are highly relevant to this invention.  Attach results of any literature or patent searches which you have performed (IMPORTANT: when providing references, please make sure to attach actual Journal article or document in a form of pdf )

10.1.=[G/BrownEdu/InventionDisclosure/Sec/PublicDisclosureDataForm/0.md]

10.=[G/Z/ol/1]

11.Ti=Commercial Interest

11.0.sec=Have you had any discussions with any companies which had interest in your invention?  If so, provide the name of company and contact.

11.1.=[G/BrownEdu/InventionDisclosure/Sec/CommercialInterestDataForm/0.md]

11.=[G/Z/ol/1]

12.Ti=Remarks:

00.0.sec=Important:  All Inventors must sign on the following page for this Invention Disclosure to be complete.<br><b>Brown Policies Acknowledgement and Agreement:<b><br>I/We, the undersigned, do hereby assign to Brown University all right, title and interest in and to this disclosed invention and all patents, patent applications and patent rights worldwide related thereto, and hereby acknowledge my/our obligations under the Brown University Patent and Invention Policy and Copyright Policy adopted May 27, 2005.

00.1.Ti=Primary Investigator (PI):

00.1.sec=Complete with signature pages for all Inventors.

00.=[G/Z/paras/1]


=[G/Z/ol/12]



PLEASE SUBMIT TO (TVO_Patents@Brown.edu).  If confirmation is not received within 48 hours consider it not received by TVO and please re-submit.
