Guide to Annex C

Ti=Creating an Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) Management Plan

0.sec={Intro.Sec}

Intro.Ti=Introduction: 

Intro.sec=Data sharing activities can implicate: (1) existing IPR, owned by the Parties or by some other person or entity; and/or (2) IPR created jointly by the Parties. Annex C should detail how the Parties will manage existing and created IPR in their data sharing activities. Copyright is the most likely category of IPR to arise in sharing and analysing data. For example, the Parties might need to obtain a licence to use software and datasets already under copyright protection. The Parties might also create new computer programs, datasets, documentation, and publications they could protect under copyright from unauthorized use by others. Copyright and other forms of IPR, such as trademark, are granted under national systems of law, and the Parties should seek legal advice when crafting and implementing their IPR management plan.

Intro.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

1.Ti=Identification of new IPR

1.0.sec=Identify and describe the IPR likely to be created by the Parties.

1.1.sec={IPR-WorkProduct.sec}

1.00.sec=Data sharing activities could generate new innovations and material the Parties could protect under IPR, such as databases (copyright), service names (trademark), inventions (patents), or commercially valuable information protected as confidential (trade secrets). New IPR could arise from the Parties modifying material protected by existing IPR (see below). Identifying such potential IPR will facilitate cooperation between the Parties on obtaining IPR protections and using protected IPR to support their data sharing activities.

1.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s1]

2.Ti=Ownership, use, and protection of new IPR

2.0.sec=Decide how IPR created during data sharing activities will be owned and how the Parties will protect, sell, license, or otherwise use such IPR.

2.1.sec={IPR-OwnUseProtect.sec}

2.00.1.0.sec=To maximize the benefit of new IPR created during their data sharing activities, the Parties should as clearly and comprehensively as possible agree on:

2.00.1.1.sec=Under what country’s laws new IPR will be protected.

2.00.1.2.sec=How new IPR will be owned (e.g., by the Parties jointly or by one Party).

2.00.1.3.sec=What licences or other arrangements are needed between the Parties to permit use of the new IPR in data sharing activities (e.g., new IPR owned by one Party is licensed to the other Party for use).

2.00.1.4.sec=Whether, and under what terms, third parties can use the new IPR, taking into account the needs of the data sharing activities and IPR-related obligations (e.g., open access) imposed by funding organizations.

2.00.1.5.sec=What measures the Parties will take to protect new IPR from loss, corruption, or unauthorized access and use.

2.00.1.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s5]

2.00.2.sec=Ownership, protection, and use of new IPR can be taken into account in the Parties’ benefit sharing plan (see Annex D). For example, as a part of benefits sharing, the Parties can agree that any new IPR shall be jointly co-owned equally or on an equitable basis or that royalties generated by licensing new IPR to third parties be used to achieve equity in the data sharing activities. 

2.00.=[G/Z/paras/s2]

2.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s1]

3.Ti=Identification of existing IPR and rights to use existing IPR

3.0.sec=Identify and describe for each Party the IPR it owns or lawfully uses that the Parties are likely to use in their data sharing activities.

3.1.sec={IPR-Existing.sec}

3.00.1.sec=Each Party might own IPR before it begins activities under the Agreement. For example, a Party might have copyright over datasets it generated or lawfully obtained before signing the Agreement. A Party might use copyrighted software under a licence it has from a third-party copyright owner. A Party might bring trade secrets to the data sharing activities. Annex C should list and describe all such existing IPR the Parties believe they might use. For existing IPR owned by third parties, Annex C should identify the owners of such IPR. The Parties should update this list when a Party acquires IPR, or the right to use IPR owned by others, after data sharing activities under the Agreement have started.

3.00.2.sec=The Parties should also describe what, if any, steps the Parties should take to ensure the lawful use of such existing IPR under the Agreement. For example, a Party that owns the copyright to an existing dataset might need to provide a licence to the other Party to use the dataset under the Agreement. A Party that has a licence to use copyrighted software owned by a third party should determine whether the Parties need permission or authorization from the copyright owner to use the software in their data sharing activities.  Annex C should document the justifications for all such determinations. Where third-party permission or authorization is required, the Parties shall not use the IPR in question under the Agreement until they have obtained the lawful right to use it. 

3.00.3.sec=Management of existing IPR during data sharing activities can also form part of the benefit sharing plan (see Annex D). For example, a Party can license existing IPR it owns to the other Party without charging royalties as a contribution to the equitable sharing of benefits the data sharing activities create.

3.00.=[G/Z/paras/s3]

3.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s1]

4.Ti=Notifications concerning IPR issues

4.0.sec=Identify and provide contact information for an individual at each Party who will be responsible for handling issues related to the IPR management plan. 

4.1.sec={IPR-Notifications.sec}

4.00.sec=Managing existing and created IPR in data sharing activities will generate questions and issues during the term of the Agreement. Annex C should contain the contact information for the person each Party identifies as the contact point for IPR management issues. Each Party shall direct all questions, problems, and information related to the management of IPR under the Agreement to the contact point for the other Party. The contact points shall be responsible for facilitating resolution of IPR-related questions and problems between the Parties. 

4.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s1]

=[G/Z/ol/4]
