Ti={Host.Name.Full} Terms of Service

1.Ti=Agree

1.sec=You may order, access and use our Services Under this {_Agreement}.

2.Ti=Meaning of terms

2.sec=Unless otherwise defined in this {_Agreement}, all capitalized terms used in this {_Agreement} will have the meanings given to them on the {DefinitionsPage.Link}.

3.Ti=Legal relationship

3.1.sec=Our Service Offerings do not constitute any legal advice.

3.2.sec=The relationship between you and us does not establish or constitute any attorney-client relationship.

3.3.sec=Our services are for companies only.

3.4.sec=Consumers are prohibited from buying our services.

3.5.sec=Companies must indicate to us whether the company is in the EU or not.

3.6.sec=EU companies must communicate to us their VAT identification number before the Trial period ends.

3.=[G/Z/ol/s6]

4.Ti=Provision, access and use

4.sec=Via a network, you can access and use our {Host.ServiceOfferings.Link}, as you agree to in {Annex.8.Link}.

5.Ti=Data Security

5.sec=We reasonably secure the processing of your Content, as you agree to in {Annex.2.Link}.

6.Ti=Personal data

6.sec=In order to perform our Services, we process your personal data, as you agree to in {Annex.4.Link}.

7.Ti=Trial Period

7.sec=We offer a Trial Period at no charge, as you agree to in {Annex.3.Link}.

8.Ti=Fees and Payment

8.1.sec=When the Trial Period ends, we will automatically charge you, except if you already cancelled by unsubscribing.

8.2.sec=You pay by debit or credit card, and taxes/fees may be added to our prices, as you agree to in {Annex.5.Link}.

8.3.sec=We issue to you invoices for our supply of services to you.

8.4.sec=We make invoices available to you by electronic means.

8.=[G/Z/ol/s4]

9.Ti=Renewal

9.sec=Your current order {_Term} will automatically renew for an equal order {_Term}, except if you or we end the Services, as you agree to in {Annex.11.Link}.

10.Ti=Termination

10.sec=You and we can terminate this {_Agreement}, as described in {Annex.6.Link}.

11.Ti=Suspension

11.sec=If you breach this {_Agreement} or the law, then we can suspend your use of the Service, as you agree to in {Annex.7.Link}.

12.Ti=You warrant that

12.sec=You have full legal power, authority and ability to enter into, and grant the rights under this {_Agreement}, you will comply with the obligations under this {_Agreement}, your grant of rights under this {_Agreement} will not violate anyone’s rights, and you will not disclose Confidential Information without a separate, signed confidentiality agreement.

13.Ti=We warrant that

13.1.sec=we have full legal power, authority and ability to enter into, and grant the rights under this {_Agreement}, and,

13.2.sec=we will comply with the obligations under this {_Agreement}.

13.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

14.Ti=Confidential information

14.sec=If Confidential Information is exchanged in connection with this {_Agreement}, the applicable confidentiality agreement is subject to this {_Agreement}.

15.Ti=Disclaimers

15.1.sec=Our Service Offerings are provided “AS IS”.

15.2.0.sec=We make no representations and disclaim all warranties regarding the Service Offerings or third party content, except:

15.2.1.sec=to the extent prohibited by law, or

15.2.2.sec=to the extent that mandatory laws apply, and

15.2.3.sec=to the extent expressly set out in this {_Agreement}.

15.2.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

15.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

16.Ti=Indemnification

16.sec=You will defend, indemnify, and hold us harmless, as you agree to in {Annex.9.Link}.

17.Ti=Liability

17.sec=Our liability is limited, as you agree to in {Annex.10.Link}.

18.Ti=Force Majeure

18.sec=We will not be liable for any delay or failure to perform any obligation under this {_Agreement} where the delay or failure results from any cause beyond our reasonable control.

19.Ti=Communication between Parties

19.sec=Both parties agree to use the Notification Email Address for communication between us and you, as you agree in {Annex.12.Link}.

20.Ti=Assignment

20.sec=You agree that any assignment or transfer of this {_Agreement} without our prior written consent will be void.

21.Ti=Entire Agreement

21.sec=This Terms of Service and its Annexes and additional applicable Attachments and additional applicable Transaction Documents and Data Processing Agreement (if applicable) and Joint Controller Agreement (if applicable) are the entire Agreement regarding transactions under this Terms of Service (together, the “{_Agreement}”).

22.Ti=Interpretation of Conflicting Terms and Severability

22.sec=The {_Agreement} supersede any course of dealing, discussions or representations between the parties, and shall be understood, as you agree in {Annex.13.Link}.

23.Ti=Representation

23.1.sec=We are an independent contractor.

23.2.sec=We are not your agent, joint venturer, partner, or fiduciary.

23.3.sec=Our Business Partners who use or make available our Services are independent from us and unilaterally determine their prices and terms. We are not responsible for their actions, omissions, statements, or offerings.

23.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

24.Ti=Acceptance of Agreement

24.0.sec=You agree to be bound by the terms and conditions of the {_Agreement} by:

24.1.sec=clicking the “I Accept” button or the checkbox presented with these terms,

24.2.sec=signing the {_Agreement} by hand,

24.3.sec=using any of the Service Offerings, or

24.4.sec=making any payment for the Service Offerings.

24.=[G/Z/ol/s4]

25.Ti=Modifications to Agreement

25.sec=We may modify the {_Agreement} at any time by posting a modified {_Agreement} at our website {Host.ToSAmend.Link}, as you agree in {Annex.14.Link}.

26.Ti=Dispute Resolution, Applicable Law and Jurisdiction

26.sec=You agree to solve disputes, as you agree in {Annex.15.Link}.

27.Ti=Severability

27.sec=If any provision of this {_Agreement} is invalid, illegal or unenforceable, you agree that the remaining provisions remain in full force and effect.

=[G/Z/ol/27]

_=[G/Agt-Form-CmA/US/Def/Link/0.md]
