Ti=License

1.Ti= Data

1.sec=The {_Parties} agree that {_Contractor} has no ownership of and, except as expressly provided in Section 2.5 of this {_Agreement}, acquires no rights in {_City_Data}. As between the {_Parties}, {_City} retains all right of ownership, title, and interest in and to {_City_Data}, including all intellectual property rights therein.

2.0.sec=Except as specified in Section 2.2.1, {_City} retains all right of ownership, title, and interest in and to any {_Deliverables} and any work products originated and prepared using any part of {_City_Data}, including all intellectual property rights therein. {_Contractor} hereby assigns to {_City} all goodwill, copyright, trademark, patent, trade secret, and all other intellectual property rights worldwide in any work products originated and prepared using any part of {_City_Data}, except as specified in Section 2.2.1. {_Contractor} further agrees to execute any documents necessary for {_City} to perfect, memorialize, or record {_City}’s ownership of rights provided herein.

2.1.sec={_Contractor}, and its licensors, if any, retains all right, title, and interest in and to the {P2.Product.Name}, and all intellectual property rights therein. In addition, {_Contractor}, and its licensors, if any, retains all right, title, and interest in and to those work products that are mere improvements or modifications to the {P2.Product.Name}, including updates to the functionality of tools provided therein.

2.=[G/Z/ol/s1]

3.sec={_Contractor} agrees that a monetary remedy for breach of this {_Agreement} may be inadequate, impracticable, or difficult to prove and that a breach may cause {_City} irreparable harm. {_City} may therefore enforce this requirement by seeking injunctive relief and specific performance, without any necessity of showing actual damage or irreparable harm. Seeking injunctive relief or specific performance does not preclude {_City} from seeking or obtaining any other relief to which {_City} may be entitled.

4.0.sec=To the extent authorized in Section 9.6 of this {_Agreement}, {_City} acknowledges and agrees {_Contractor} may use third-party subprocessors (“{DefT.Subprocessors}”) that may view, access, or possess {_City_Data}. Any subcontract entered into by {_Contractor} related to the provision of {_Contracted_Services} with a {_Subprocessor} shall include provisions sufficient to contractually bind {_Subprocessor} such that {_City}’s ownership, rights, and control of {_City_Data} and {_Contractor}’s obligations to protect {_City_Data}, are preserved and protected as intended herein.

4.1.sec={_Contractor}’s use of employees and independent contract staff to perform {_Contracted_Services} (“{DefT.Personnel}”) shall be formalized with such {_Personnel} in writing and shall include employee policy or contract provisions sufficient to bind those {_Personnel} such that {_Contractor}’s obligations and {_City}’s rights are preserved and protected as intended herein.

4.=[G/Z/ol/s1]

5.0.sec=Subject to the confidentiality and other terms of this {_Agreement}, {_City_Agency} grants {_Contractor} a non- transferable (except as expressly contemplated by Section 9.5), non-exclusive, terminable at-will, license to use, analyze, host, store, and process {_City_Data}, for the purpose of performing the {_Contracted_Services} for {_City_Agency}. {_Contractor} shall not use, analyze, host, store, or process {_City_Data} for any other purpose. Nothing in this {_Agreement} shall prevent {_Contractor} from improving the {P2.Product.Name} with {_City_Data} processed in the course of providing the {_Contracted_Services}, to the extent that no {_City_Data} is used, stored, or retained beyond the scope and term of this {_Agreement}.

5.1.sec={_Contractor} shall not exploit or commercialize {_City_Data} for any reason. Except as authorized in Section 4 of this {_Agreement}, {_Contractor} shall not disclose, sell, assign, or otherwise provide any part of {_City_Data} to any third party.

5.=[G/Z/ol/s1]

=[G/Z/ol/s5]
