Ti=Architecting a Better Legal System

0.1.sec=I am pleased to invite you to a workshop at MIT at which we will discuss the architecture of a better legal system. 

0.2.sec=The workshop will take place on October 31, 2018, at the MIT Media Lab.  It is convened by Professor Alex (Sandy) Pentland, head of MIT Connection Science and advisor to the American Bar Association's Center for Innovation and the World Economic Forum.

0.3.sec=The workshop is held in collaboration with the ABA, the World Economic Forum and the International Association for Contract and Commercial Management.  It is organized by James Hazard, the founder of CommonAccord.org and Thomas Hardjono and Dazza Greenwood of MIT Connection Science. Students at Brown University will be preparing reports and demonstrations of computing trends as part of their course on "The Fusion of Law and Code." 

0.4.sec=The goal of the workshop is to highlight the convergence of trends in law and technology, and to map a route forward to the future of law and the role of lawyers.  The first section below describes some of these trends.  The second section describes a "universal" data sharing framework agreement as an illustration of convergence and suggested starting point for comprehensive legal codification.

0.=[G/Z/paras/s4]

1.Ti=Convergence of IT and Legal Platforms

1.0.sec=The trends include computing advances and legal advances.  These will reinforce one another, with a shared, peer-based transacting system as the outcome.  In his "Code is Law" thesis, Professor Lessig sketched the dangers of transacting systems that are not shaped by legal design and social oversight.  The workshop seeks to encourage the legal profession to fill this gap.  We describe here the technical, business and legal trends that are converging on a common platform. 

1.1.sec=Computing advances include Articial Intelligence, blockchains, privacy-preserving data management and Internet-of-Things.  Legal advances include increased convergence on common terms of dealing, new insistence on data privacy, security and portability and new awareness of threats to sovereinty and autonomy posed by large aggregations of data and processing.

1.2.sec=From these various trends, a new platform for transacting is emerging.  That platform is standards-based; it will permit everyone to use the same kinds of tools, can deal with whomever they wish without vendor lock-in, can radically reduce the extent to which information about them needs to be circulated.  The tools will be open source.

1.3.sec=The business implications are enormous.  A standard technical platform will radically increase the power of platforms, extending automation into many domains where it is now just nibbling at the edges.  It will also radically reduce the optimal size of intermediaries (Coase) at the same time as it enables agile companies to disrupt established ones.  The transformation of large intermediaries such as banks and brokers will be profound.

1.4.sec=The legal impact will also be enormous.  A standards-based transacting platform implies standards-based legal relationships.  The terms between the users and their access providers will need to be defined in terms of standards that permit the users to change suppliers and to permit the suppliers to assure that their engagements with the users are correctly managed as they interact with other suppliers.  There will need to be end-to-end compliance and auditability.  This can be provided only via legal standards that define the obligations of the participants. 

1.5.sec=The word processing era of the legal automation will close, roughly 40 years after it began, and a standards-based platform will emerge that is integrated with the technical platform.

1.6.sec=The role of lawyers will radically change, as solutions to problems that were handled at retail, repeatedly, can be reused, scaled, and applied ahead of time at the planning stage.  Standards and data analytics will enable generalization of solutions, learning from others, even some look-ahead that is currently impossible or only available to organizations with large collections of transactions. 

1.7.sec=While legal knowledge, skills and wisdom may be less needed for repeat tranacting, it will become even more important for designing social, production and governance systems. The world that we want.  Lawyers and the law are societies most developed store of knowledge and wisdom about governance, and the profession most skilled at finding pragmatic solutons to actual disputes and conflicts of interest.  

1.=[G/Z/ol/s7]

2.Ti=A Data Sharing Framework

2.0.sec=This section describes a particular problem and an initiative to develop a solution.  It is extremely important on its own and a powerful illustration and starting point.  It is a particularly powerful problem because it is pervasive and obviously needs to be solved at a systemic level.  The specific problem is that of sharing data relating to epidemic outbreaks  New epidemics often are "zootropic" - a pathogen hops from animals to humans.  These often occur in remote places with limited technology and social structures for capturing, analyzing and communicating information about the disease and its spread.  There are many very useful sources of information including medical reports and tissue samples, movements of people and mobile phone calling patterns.  But this information is often inaccessible as a practical matter because of real or feared legal restrictions, jealosies and incompibilities.  At the time of an outbreak there is an urgent and widely-recognized need to use this data, but the absence of a common framework makes it hard to act in time.  

2.1.sec=A common framework could greatly improve this.  Chatham House has developed a <a href"https://datasharing.chathamhouse.org/resources/model-agreement/">model data sharing framework</a> in collaboration with many NGOs, with funding by the Gates Foundation.  That framework establishes principles expressed in a form of agreement that organizations can sign, with annexes for specific data sharing activities and terms of use.

2.2.sec=That framework can be used to establish the basics of the relationship among organizations, including dispute resolution, duties, representations, communications and the like.  The annexes can establish the specific terms of specific exchanges.  A library of annexes can create a kind of menu of alternatives and starting points for negotiation.  By sharing the templates publicly, negotiations of data sharing arrangements can become more rapid, more consistent and the public scrutiny can make them more clear and more fair.

2.3.sec=The terms of sharing must respect the terms on which the data was obtained, so the terms of the data sharing need to match the terms of the consents.  Similarly, the obligations in the consents need to be respected along the entire chain of access or custody of the data.  This can extend through intermediaries and on as far as medical researchers.  This leads to the need for aligning libraries for consents from data subjects, the terms of the data sharing and documents such as Materials Transfer Agreements.

2.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

=[G/Z/ol/2]



 






