Article 31

Ti=Notification of a personal data breach to the supervisory authority

1.sec=In the case of a personal data breach, the controller shall without undue delay and, where feasible, not later than 24 hours after having become aware of it, notify the personal data breach to the supervisory authority. The notification to the supervisory authority shall be accompanied by a reasoned justification in cases where it is not made within 24 hours.

2.sec=Pursuant to point (f) of Article 26(2), the processor shall alert and inform the controller immediately after the establishment of a personal data breach.

3.0.sec=The notification referred to in paragraph 1 must at least:

3.1.sec=describe the nature of the personal data breach including the categories and number of data subjects concerned and the categories and number of data records concerned;

3.2.sec=communicate the identity and contact details of the data protection officer or other contact point where more information can be obtained;

3.3.sec=recommend measures to mitigate the possible adverse effects of the personal data breach;

3.4.sec=describe the consequences of the personal data breach;

3.5.sec=describe the measures proposed or taken by the controller to address the personal data breach.

3.=[G/Z/ol-a/s5]

4.sec=The controller shall document any personal data breaches, comprising the facts surrounding the breach, its effects and the remedial action taken. This documentation must enable the supervisory authority to verify compliance with this Article. The documentation shall only include the information necessary for that purpose.

5.sec=The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 86 for the purpose of further specifying the criteria and requirements for establishing the data breach referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 and for the particular circumstances in which a controller and a processor is required to notify the personal data breach.

6.sec=The Commission may lay down the standard format of such notification to the supervisory authority, the procedures applicable to the notification requirement and the form and the modalities for the documentation referred to in paragraph 4, including the time limits for erasure of the information contained therein. Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 87(2).

=[G/Z/ol/s6]