Article 47

Ti=Independence

1.sec=The supervisory authority shall act with complete independence in exercising the duties and powers entrusted to it.

2.sec=The members of the supervisory authority shall, in the performance of their duties, neither seek nor take instructions from anybody.

3.sec=Members of the supervisory authority shall refrain from any action incompatible with their duties and shall not, during their term of office, engage in any incompatible occupation, whether gainful or not.

4.sec=Members of the supervisory authority shall behave, after their term of office, with integrity and discretion as regards the acceptance of appointments and benefits.

5.sec=Each Member State shall ensure that the supervisory authority is provided with the adequate human, technical and financial resources, premises and infrastructure necessary for the effective performance of its duties and powers, including those to  be carried out in the context of mutual assistance, co-operation and participation in the European Data Protection Board.

6.sec=Each Member State shall ensure that the supervisory authority has its own staff which shall be appointed by and be subject to the direction of the head of the supervisory authority.

7.sec=Member States shall ensure that the supervisory authority is subject to financial control which shall not affect its independence. Member States shall ensure that the supervisory authority has separate annual budgets. The budgets shall be made public.

=[Z/ol/s7]
