Article 56

Ti=Joint operations of supervisory authorities

1.sec=In order to step up co-operation and mutual assistance, the supervisory authorities shall carry out joint investigative tasks, joint enforcement measures and other joint operations, in which designated members or staff from other Member States' supervisory authorities are involved.

2.sec=In cases where data subjects in several Member States are likely to be affected by processing operations, a supervisory authority of each of those Member States shall have the right to participate in the joint investigative tasks or joint operations, as appropriate. The competent supervisory authority shall invite the supervisory authority of each of those Member States to take part in the respective joint investigative tasks or joint operations and respond to the request of a supervisory authority to participate in the operations without delay.

3.sec=Each supervisory authority may, as a host supervisory authority, in compliance with its own national law, and with the seconding supervisory authority’s authorisation, confer executive powers, including investigative tasks on the seconding supervisory authority’s members or staff involved in joint operations or, in so far as the host supervisory authority’s law permits, allow the seconding supervisory authority’s members or staff to exercise their executive powers in accordance with the seconding  supervisory authority’s law. Such executive powers may be exercised only under the guidance and, as a rule, in the presence of members or staff from the host supervisory authority. The seconding supervisory authority's members or staff shall be subject to the host supervisory authority's national law. The host supervisory authority shall assume responsibility for their actions.

4.sec=Supervisory authorities shall lay down the practical aspects of specific co-operation actions.

5.sec=Where a supervisory authority does not comply within one month with the obligation laid down in paragraph 2, the other supervisory authorities shall be competent to take a provisional measure on the territory of its Member State in accordance with Article 51(1).

6.sec=The supervisory authority shall specify the period of validity of a provisional measure referred to in paragraph 5. This period shall not exceed three months. The supervisory authority shall, without delay, communicate those measures, with full reasons, to the European Data Protection Board and to the Commission and shall submit the matter in the mechanism referred to in Article 57.

=[G/Z/ol/s6]