Ti=Who can access your personal data? 

1.sec=Your personal data will only be accessible by duly authorised persons within {_P1} for purposes strictly linked to their respective duties. This may include members of the following teams: customer service, customer support and technical support.

2.0.sec=We may moreover have to share your personal data in the following situations:

2.1.sec=your personal data may be transmitted to our hosting company based in Europe which enables us to provide access to the {_Application}, in keeping with the contractual terms signed with this hosting company, which may not depart from the terms of this confidentiality policy. 

2.2.sec=your personal data may also be disclosed where need be to the police (under a court warrant) or to any person who is legally empowered to receive this information (pursuant to a court order). 

3.sec=Finally, please note that the enterprise to which you belong and that enables you to use the {_Application} will also have access to your personal data. This enterprise may moreover gather elements of your personal data via the {_Application}, for its own purposes.

4.sec=Please refer to the confidentiality policies applicable within your enterprise in order to determine how your enterprise processes the personal data that it gathers via {_P1}’s {_Application}. 

5.sec=In accordance with the applicable European data protection regulations, {_P1} and your enterprise have signed a joint data controller agreement that you may view by contacting your enterprise.
