Exhibit C. Example of a Power Purchase Agreement

Contract No. 01PB-_____

_________, 2002

Ti=POWER PURCHASE AGREEMENT

0.1.0.sec=Executed by:

0.1.1.sec=the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY acting by and through the BONNEVILLE POWER ADMINISTRATION

0.1.2.sec=and

0.1.3.sec=(__________ Wind Project)

0.1.=[G/Z/ol-none/s3]

Index to Sections


This.0.sec=This POWER PURCHASE AGREEMENT (this “Agreement”) is executed by and between [SELLER] (“Seller”), and the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY, acting by and through the BONNEVILLE POWER ADMINISTRATION (“BPA”). Both Seller and BPA are sometimes referred to herein individually as “Party” and collectively as “Parties.”

This.1.sec=WHEREAS, BPA is authorized by Federal law, including the Pacific Northwest Electric Power Planning and Conservation Act (Public Law 96-501, the “Northwest Power Act”) and other applicable laws, to acquire sufficient capacity and energy (where “power” may herein refer to either or both terms) from power production facilities, including wind powered production facilities, to meet the electric power requirements placed on BPA by its regional customers.

This.2.sec=WHEREAS Seller desires to construct, own, and operate a wind powered electric generating plant to be located _________________.

This.3.sec=WHEREAS, Seller desires to sell to BPA [all or a portion] of the Energy Output generated by the Facility (as defined below), and BPA desires to buy the same from Seller.

This.4.sec=WHEREAS, BPA’s obligation hereunder is not, nor shall it be construed to be, a general obligation of the United States, nor is it intended to be or is it secured by the full faith and credit of the United States.

This.00.sec=NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants herein contained, the sufficiency and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties agree to the following:

This.=[G/Z/ol-none/s4]

0.2.sec={This.sec}

0.=[G/Z/ol-none/s4]

1.=[G/US-Bonneville-WindPowerPurchaseAgreement-CmA/Sec/Definitions_0.md]

2.=[G/US-Bonneville-WindPowerPurchaseAgreement-CmA/Sec/Term_0.md]

3.Ti=Exhibits

3.sec=The exhibits listed in the Table of Contents are incorporated into this Agreement by reference.

4.=[G/US-Bonneville-WindPowerPurchaseAgreement-CmA/Sec/FacilityDescription_0.md]

5.=[G/US-Bonneville-WindPowerPurchaseAgreement-CmA/Sec/InterconnectionFacilitiesAndMetering_0.md]

6.=[G/US-Bonneville-WindPowerPurchaseAgreement-CmA/Sec/ObligationToSellAndPurchase_0.md]

7.=[G/US-Bonneville-WindPowerPurchaseAgreement-CmA/Sec/PaymentForEnergyOutput_0.md]

8.=[G/US-Bonneville-WindPowerPurchaseAgreement-CmA/Sec/BillingAndPayment_0.md]

9.=[G/US-Bonneville-WindPowerPurchaseAgreement-CmA/Sec/OperationsAndMaintenance_0.md]

10.=[G/US-Bonneville-WindPowerPurchaseAgreement-CmA/Sec/DefaultAndTermination_0.md]

11.=[G/US-Bonneville-WindPowerPurchaseAgreement-CmA/Sec/TerminateForConvenience_0.md]

12.=[G/US-Bonneville-WindPowerPurchaseAgreement-CmA/Sec/Notices_0.md]

13.=[G/US-Bonneville-WindPowerPurchaseAgreement-CmA/Sec/DisputeResolution_0.md]

14.=[G/US-Bonneville-WindPowerPurchaseAgreement-CmA/Sec/ForceMajeure_0.md]

15.=[G/US-Bonneville-WindPowerPurchaseAgreement-CmA/Sec/Representations_0.md]

16.=[G/US-Bonneville-WindPowerPurchaseAgreement-CmA/Sec/Insurance_0.md]

17.=[G/US-Bonneville-WindPowerPurchaseAgreement-CmA/Sec/RegulatoryCompliance_0.md]

/18.=[G/US-Bonneville-WindPowerPurchaseAgreement-CmA/Sec/Assignment_0.md]
19.=[G/US-Bonneville-WindPowerPurchaseAgreement-CmA/Sec/Confidentiality_0.md]

20.=[G/US-Bonneville-WindPowerPurchaseAgreement-CmA/Sec/Miscellaneous_0.md]

=[G/Z/ol/20]

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement.

[SELLER] UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Department of Energy

Bonneville Power Administration

By: By: __________________________

Gregory K. Delwiche

[Title] Vice President, Generation Supply

Contract No. 01PB-_____

_________ Wind Project

Example of Power Purchase Agreement 1

EXHIBIT A

Facility Description and Map

The Facility is known as the _______ Wind Project and is located __________.

The Facility consists of [number, manufacturer, and model] wind turbines. Each wind turbine is connected to the next by a ___-kV underground collector system. Wind turbines are grouped in “strings” of _ to ___ turbines, each spaced approximately ___ feet from the next.

[Further describe the Facility]

[Describe Interconnection Facilities]

The following site map indicates the location and layout of the BPA Wind Turbines. The following diagram shows the location of Metering Devices and other equipment installed at the Facility Substation.

[PLACEHOLDER PAGE FOR MAP]

Contract No. 01PB-_____

_________ Wind Project

Example of Power Purchase Agreement 3

[PLACEHOLDER PAGE FOR SUBSTATION DIAGRAM]

Contract No. 01PB-_____

_________ Wind Project

Example of Power Purchase Agreement 1

EXHIBIT B

Form of Notice

Contract No. 01PB-_____

_________ Wind Project

Example of Power Purchase Agreement 1

EXHIBIT C

Form of Invoice

Contract No. 01PB-_____

_________ Wind Project

Example of Power Purchase Agreement 1

EXHIBIT D

Termination Payment Schedule
