Ti=SOW Status Report

Each SOW status report shall be developed in accordance with Section 2.5 and include the following items:

1.Ti=Accomplishments

1.sec=A written summary of all of the accomplishments and difficulties encountered during the prior reporting period.

2.Ti=Current Status

2.sec=A written summary of the current status of the SOW and the status of milestones that are due during the reporting period and of any milestones that were due during the previous reporting period but were not completed.

3.Ti=Jeopardy Items

3.sec=A written summary of all concerns or issues for the current reporting period, along with the plan and projected date for resolution.

4.Ti=Scheduling and Staffing Items

4.sec=A written summary of any special staffing or scheduling issues for the upcoming period.

5.Ti=Open Issues

5.sec=A comprehensive and consolidated list of all outstanding SOW-related problems identified by {_Client} and {_Vendor} that remain to be resolved.

6.Ti=Resolved Issues

6.sec=A written summary of the concerns or issues that were reported in the previous reporting periods that have been resolved and a description of the resolution.

7.Ti=Delays

7.sec=Identification of any {_Client} or Third Party delays affecting {_Vendor}’s ability to perform.

8.Ti=Suggestions

8.sec=Suggestions and proposed actions for dealing with and resolving any identified difficulties and the anticipated results during the next reporting period.

9.Ti=Miscellaneous

9.sec=Any other concern or information that will or may affect the SOW.

=[Z/ol/9]

