Ti=Organizational measures

1.sec=As human errors are among the most difficult errors to control, organizations should, with ongoing commitment of adequate resources: (1) develop, monitor, and enforce policies (consistent with this {_policy}) to secure {_data}; (2) appoint a security officer responsible for implementing and enforcing security policies and practices, and responsible for monitoring them through standards, procedures, and baselines; (3) implement internal and external security reviews and audits; and (4) implement and require ongoing training and education of personnel on privacy and security policies and best practices.

2.sec=The number of copies of {_data} (as backup or otherwise) stored by persons or organizations should be kept to the minimum necessary to ensure adequate protection of the {_data} in the event of primary copy {_data} loss.

3.sec=Each organization should implement Identity and Access Management ({_IAM}) policies, procedures, and technologies to verify the identity of each individual to whom access rights are to be granted, and to ensure that each individual is given access to all of (and only) the type and volume of {_data} and services required for a specified period of time. {_IAM} includes identity proofing, credential issuance, rights authorization, identity authentication, and rights revocation. As part of the {_IAM} policies, organizations should maintain a list of persons having access to {_data} and the list should be reviewed regularly and authenticated.

4.sec=Organizations that agree to recognize and accept authenticated identities and security attributes issued by other organizations (“federated identity”) have the responsibility of assuring the trustworthiness of the issuers, as well as the currency and authenticity of asserted identities. The {_GA4GH} Authentication and Authorization Infrastructure (AAI) standard may be used to federate identity authentication and service authorization.

5.sec=Consequences for {_data_breach}es should be clearly stipulated and enforced (see also the GA4GH Accountability Policy).

6.sec=In the context of cloud computing, companies providing cloud computing services to store, analyze, or warehouse {_data} should have good management infrastructure and robust {_data} encryption capabilities. The responsibility is on the {_data_user}/organization to ensure this infrastructure is compliant with local laws and regulations when uploading {_data} to the cloud. Organizations should ensure that cloud service providers have independently audited against comprehensive and internationally recognized and respected information security standards, such as those promulgated by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) and Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements (SSAE). Organizations should also ensure that cloud service providers have up-to-date third party audit certifications and are maintained throughout the duration of the cloud service.

=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s6]
