Ti=Responsibility for Determinations of Fact and Law

1.sec=The court is responsible for considering all relevant facts and evidence and for determining the correct legal basis for its decisions, including matters determined on the basis of foreign law.

2.0.sec=The court may, while affording the parties opportunity to respond:

2.1.sec=Permit or invite a party to amend its contentions of law or fact and to offer additional legal argument and evidence accordingly;

2.2.sec=Order the taking of evidence not previously suggested by a party; or

2.3.sec=Rely upon a legal theory or an interpretation of the facts or of the evidence that has not been advanced by a party.

2.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

3.sec=The court ordinarily should hear all evidence directly, but when necessary may assign to a suitable delegate the taking and preserving of evidence for consideration by the court at the final hearing.

4.0.sec=The court may appoint an expert to give evidence on any relevant issue for which expert testimony is appropriate, including foreign law.

4.1.sec=If the parties agree upon an expert the court ordinarily should appoint that expert.

4.2.sec=A party has a right to present expert testimony through an expert selected by that party on any relevant issue for which expert testimony is appropriate.

4.3.sec=An expert, whether appointed by the court or by a party, owes a duty to the court to present a full and objective assessment of the issue addressed.

4.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

=[G/Z/ol/s4]

Comment:

P-22A It is universally recognized that the court has responsibility for determination of issues of law and of fact necessary for the judgment, and that all parties have a right to be heard concerning applicable law and relevant evidence. See Principle 5.

P-22B Foreign law is a particularly important subject in transnational litigation. The judge may not be knowledgeable about foreign law and may need to appoint an expert or request submissions from the parties on issues of foreign law. See Principle 22.4.

P-22C The scope of the proceeding, and the issues properly to be considered, are determined by the claims and defenses of the parties in the pleadings. The judge is generally bound by the scope of the proceeding stated by the parties. However, the court in the interest of justice may order or permit amendment by a party, giving other parties a right to respond accordingly. See Principle 10.3.

P-22D Use of experts is common in complex litigation. Court appointment of a neutral expert is the practice in most civil-law systems and in some common-law systems. However, party-appointed experts can provide valuable assistance in the analysis of difficult factual issues. Fear that party appointment of experts will devolve into a “battle of experts” and thereby obscure the issues is generally misplaced. In any event, this risk is offset by the value of such evidence. Expert testimony may be received on issues of foreign law.

