Ti=Promotion of the Declaration 

1.Ti=Article 22 – Role of States 

1.1.sec=States should take all appropriate measures, whether of a legislative, administrative or other character, to give effect to the principles set out in this Declaration in accordance with international human rights law. Such measures should be supported by action in the spheres of education, training and public information. 

1.2.sec=States should encourage the establishment of independent, multidisciplinary and pluralist ethics committees, as set out in Article 19. 

1.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

2.Ti=Article 23 – Bioethics education, training and information 

2.1.sec=In order to promote the principles set out in this Declaration and to achieve a better understanding of the ethical implications of scientific and technological developments, in particular for young people, States should endeavour to foster bioethics education and training at all levels as well as to encourage information and knowledge dissemination programmes about bioethics. 

2.2.sec=States should encourage the participation of international and regional intergovernmental organizations and international, regional and national non governmental organizations in this endeavour. 

2.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

3.Ti=Article 24 – International cooperation 

3.1.sec=States should foster international dissemination of scientific information and encourage the free flow and sharing of scientific and technological knowledge. 

3.2.sec=Within the framework of international cooperation, States should promote cultural and scientific cooperation and enter into bilateral and multilateral agreements enabling developing countries to build up their capacity to participate in generating and sharing scientific knowledge, the related know-how and the benefits thereof. 

3.3.sec=States should respect and promote solidarity between and among States, as well as individuals, families, groups and communities, with special regard for those rendered vulnerable by disease or disability or other personal, societal or environmental conditions and those with the most limited resources. 

3.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

4.Ti=Article 25 – Follow-up action by UNESCO 

4.1.sec=UNESCO shall promote and disseminate the principles set out in this Declaration. In doing so, UNESCO should seek the help and assistance of the Intergovernmental Bioethics Committee (IGBC) and the International Bioethics Committee (IBC). 

4.2.sec=UNESCO shall reaffirm its commitment to dealing with bioethics and to promoting collaboration between IGBC and IBC.

4.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

=[G/Z/ol-none/4]