Ti=INDEMNIFICATION OF THIRD PARTY CLAIMS (EXCLUDING INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY CLAIMS)

//=Common frame for Principles:

=[G/IACCM-ContractPrinciples-CmA/Z/Sec/0.md]

//=II. Definitions

Def.0.sec=The following definition applies to these IACCM Contracting Principles:

Def.secs={Def.Indemnification.Sec}

Def.Indemnification.Sec=“{_Indemnification}” means that the indemnifying party (“{_Indemnitor}”) will defend and be responsible for a claim made by a third party against the indemnified party (“{_Indemnitee}”) to the extent that the {_Indemnitor} expressly undertook the indemnification obligation with respect to the specific acts or omissions under the agreement that gave rise to the claim.

III. General Concepts

Concept.1.0.sec=The following concepts form the basis for the more detailed IACCM Contracting Principles that follow:

Concept.1.1.sec=Although parties to a contract generally recognize that their acts or omissions under the agreement may have an effect on third parties – particularly where a supplier is enabling a customer to provide its products or services downstream – the supplier should not be expected to step into the shoes of the customer in taking on all risks that the customer faces in doing business in the marketplace.

Concept.1.2.sec=Third parties should not be viewed as beneficiaries of an agreement between customers and suppliers unless expressly made so in the agreement.

Concept.1.3.sec=Customers should be expected to undertake commercially reasonable efforts to shield themselves from liability (e.g., by including appropriate flow down terms in its own agreements with their end consumers or by means of appropriate insurance) and should not look to suppliers to act as insurers in the event those efforts are not successful in warding off claims.

Concept.1.4.sec=The agreement is not the sole vehicle by which a party can hold the other party accountable for third party claims; a party can also join the other party as a third party defendant in litigation initiated by a third party plaintiff.

Concept.1.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s4]

Concept.2.sec=Given that a third party is not a party to the agreement, the third party is not be bound by any limitations to or exclusions from liability in that agreement. However, where the third party is an end-customer of the customer, then it is reasonable to expect that the latter could limit its exposure to certain claims under its contractual relationships with its end-customers, thereby foreclosing the end-customers from bringing claims for indirect, consequential damages and the like.

Concept.3.sec={_Indemnification} obligations should extend only to the degree that the indemnifying party was responsible for the damages incurred. Proportionate liability should result from situations where multiple parties contributed to an event.

Concept.4.sec={_Indemnification} for intellectual property infringement claims is addressed in a separate paper entitled IACCM Contracting Principles – Infringement Indemnity.

Concept.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s2]

IV. IACCM Contracting Principles

Principle.1.Ti=Scope of Indemnification Obligations

Principle.1.1.sec=Each party should indemnify the other for third party claims relating to (i) personal injury, death, and property damage due to a party’s (or its subcontractors’ or agents’) negligence or willful misconduct; and (ii) where relevant to the services provided, employment matters brought by employees of the {_Indemnitor} against the {_Indemnitee}.

Principle.1.2.sec=Supplier indemnification for data losses should be limited to only those transactions where the supplier will need to be in control of or have ongoing access to personal data belonging to the customer’s clients in order to provide services.
Principle.1.3.sec=Supplier’s indemnification for governmental or regulatory fines or penalties incurred by the customer should be limited to those that are a direct result of the supplier’s breach of the agreement with respect to obligations to comply with applicable laws or regulations.

Principle.1.4.sec=Customers should indemnify suppliers for third party claims associated with the customers’ business operations, data, or business content that gave rise to the claim except to the degree the suppliers’ acts or omissions contributed to the damages.

Principle.1.5.sec=The parties to be indemnified should be specified in the agreement. Suppliers should be willing to indemnify the customer and its affiliates, agents, and assigns.

Principle.1.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s5]

Principle.2.Ti=Applicability of Limitations of and Exclusions from Liability for Indemnification Obligations

Principle.2.1.sec=The same limitation of liability should apply to indemnification obligations as would apply if the claim were made by the {_Indemnitee} itself against the {_Indemnitor}.

Principle.2.2.sec=Third party claims should be treated as direct damages to the {_Indemnitee} regardless of their nature if the {_Indemnitee} could not have reasonably protected itself against those claims contractually (e.g., the {_Indemnitee} was not able to exclude lost profits or goodwill from its customer agreements or the third party is seeking damages under tort).

Principle.2.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s2]

Principle.3.Ti=Conditions for Indemnification

Principle.3.1.sec=The {_Indemnitee} should have the same obligation to mitigate third party damages as it would to mitigate its own.

Principle.3.2.0.sec=Any obligation to indemnify for third party claims should be preconditioned upon the following:

Principle.3.2.1.sec=A party seeking indemnification pursuant to an agreement has the burden of proof for the amount of losses being claimed under the relevant indemnity unless the agreement specifies liquidated damages in the particular situation.

Principle.3.2.2.sec=The extent of liability for the claim should be proportional to the fault on the part of the {_Indemnitor} vis-à-vis fault by the {_Indemnitee} or any other party.

Principle.3.2.3.sec=The {_Indemnitee} must give prompt notice of the claim to the {_Indemnitor} or relieve the latter for any incremental liability caused by the delay.

Principle.3.2.4.sec=The {_Indemnitee} must provide all reasonable support to the {_Indemnitor} in defense of the claim (if the {_Indemnitor} will be undertaking defense of the claim), with the latter responsible for payment of any reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the former for that support.

Principle.3.2.5.sec=The {_Indemnitee} has the right to participate (at its own expense) in the defense of the claim; provided that the {_Indemnitor} has priority rights to take the lead on the defense.

Principle.3.2.6.sec=The {_Indemnitee} cannot settle any claim for which indemnification is sought without the express prior written consent of the {_Indemnitor}.

Principle.3.2.7.sec=The {_Indemnitor} cannot admit to guilt or fault on the {_Indemnitee}’s part without the express prior written consent of the latter.

Principle.3.2.8.sec=The {_Indemnitor} cannot take any action in the course of the defense that would impugn the reputation or goodwill of the {_Indemnitee}.

Principle.3.2.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s8]

Principle.3.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s2]

Principle.=[G/Z/ol-AA/3]

Clause.=[G/IACCM-ContractPrinciples-CmA/Sec/Indemnity/0.md]