OPTION:

Doc.Title=Source Code Contributor License Agreement (CLA): Apache 2.0

0.Ti=(Can be used for development of output of a Work Group other than Technical Specifications)

0.sec=You accept and agree to the following terms and conditions for Your present and future Licensed Materials submitted to Kantara Initiative. In return, Kantara Initiative shall not use Your Licensed Materials in a way that is contrary to the public benefit or inconsistent with its nonprofit status and bylaws in effect at the time of the submission. Except for the license granted herein to Kantara Initiative, IEEE-ISTO and recipients of software and other Organization Recommendations distributed by Kantara Initiative, You reserve all right, title, and interest in and to Your Licensed Materials.

0.=[Z/ol/0]

1.Ti=ARTICLE 1: DEFINITIONS.

1.sec="You" (or "Your") shall mean the copyright owner or legal entity authorized by the copyright owner that is providing the Licensed Materials. For legal entities, the entity providing the Licensed Materials and all other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common control with that entity are considered to be a single Contributor. For the purposes of this definition, "control" means ( i ) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

2.Ti=ARTICLE 2: COPYRIGHT

2.sec=To allow Kantara Initiative to distribute software and other Organization Recommendations using the Apache License, Ver. 2.0, You hereby grant to Kantara Initiative and to IEEE-ISTO on behalf of Kantara Initiative and to recipients of software and other Organization Recommendations distributed by Kantara Initiative a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, nocharge, royalty-free, irrevocable copyright license to reproduce, prepare derivative works of, publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute Your Licensed Materials and such derivative works. You further agree to provide Kantara Initiative and IEEE-ISTO on behalf of Kantara Initiative any other rights necessary to allow it to distribute software and other Organization Recommendations using the Apache License, Version 2.0.

3.Ti=ARTICLE 3: PATENT

3.sec=To allow Kantara Initiative to distribute software and other Organization Recommendations using the Apache License, Ver. 2.0, You hereby grant to Kantara Initiative and IEEE-ISTO on behalf of Kantara Initiative and to recipients of software and other Organization Recommendations distributed by Kantara Initiative a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, nocharge, royalty-free, irrevocable (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Organization Recommendation, where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable by You that are necessarily infringed by Your Licensed Materials alone or by combination of Your Licensed Materials with the Organization Recommendation to which such Licensed Materials were submitted. If any entity institutes patent litigation against You or any other entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that Your Licensed Materials, or the Organization Recommendation to which You have submitted, constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses granted to that entity for those Licensed Materials or that Organization Recommendation shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed. You further agree to provide Kantara Initiative and IEEE-ISTO on behalf of Kantara Initiative any other rights necessary to allow it to distribute software and other Organization Recommendations using the Apache License, Version 2.0.

4.Ti=ARTICLE 4: ORIGINAL CREATIONS

4.sec=You represent that each of Your Licensed Materials is Your original creation (see Article 6 for submissions on behalf of others).

5.Ti=ARTICLE 5: NO SUPPORT, NO WARRANTY

5.sec=You are not expected to provide support for Your Licensed Materials, except to the extent You desire to provide support. You may provide support for free, for a fee, or not at all. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, You provide Your Licensed Materials on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions of TITLE, NONINFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

6.Ti=ARTICLE 6: OTHER PARTY MATERIALS

6.sec=Should You wish to submit work that is not Your original creation, You may submit it to Kantara Initiative separately from any Licensed Materials, identifying the complete details of its source and of any license or other restriction (including, but not limited to, related patents, trademarks, and license agreements) of which You are personally aware, and conspicuously marking the work as "Submitted on behalf of a third-party: (named here)".

DocBody={Doc}

=[Z/ol/6]