//=This page tweaks the common Outline form to make it into an outline of an NDA.  An additional page can connect the outline points with actual text, including subsections. 
 
Doc.Ti=Confidentiality Agreement

Point.sec=Highlighted business points:  <ol class="secs-and"><li>Effective Date: {EffectiveDate.YMD}<li>End of Confidentiality and Agreement:  {End.YMD}<li>Form Type:  {FormType}</ol>

//=Making the Deal section consist of the Confidentiality provisions.

Deal.sec=<ol>{Relate.Conf.LI}</ol>

Def.xlist=<ol class="secs-and">{Def.Agreement.LI}{Def.Confidential_Information.LI}{Def.Confidentiality_Engagement.LI}{Def.Disclosing_Party.LI}{Def.Effective_Date.LI}{Def.Party.LI}{Def.Purpose.LI}{Def.Receiving_Party.LI}</ol>

//Relate.sec=<ol>{Relate.Law.LI}{Relate.Life.LI}{Relate.Cond.LI}{Relate.Limit.LI}{Relate.Cov.LI}{Relate.Rep.LI}{Relate.Own.LI}{Relate.Remedy.LI}{Relate.Language.LI}{Relate.Notice.LI}{Relate.Amend.LI}{Relate.Assign.LI}{Relate.Waive.LI}{Relate.Dispute.LI}</ol>

Relate.Conf.Xnum={Deal.Xnum}.<a href="#Relate.Conf.Sec">1</a>

Relate.Limit.sec=<ol>{Relate.Limit.NoDeal.LI}{Relate.Limit.NoAgency.LI}{Relate.Limit.NoWarrantyOnInfo.LI}</ol>

//=No "conditions" to the Confidentiality Engagements.

Relate.Cond.LI=</li>

//=Confidentiality is the "Deal.Sec" of this Agreement, so skipped in the Relate.Sec.

Relate.Cov.sec=<ol>{Relate.Cov.P2.Export.LI}</ol>

Relate.Rep.sec=<ol>{Relate.Rep.Discloser.InfoDoesNotInfringe.LI}</ol>

Relate.Own.sec=<ol>{Relate.Own.DiscloserRetains.LI}</ol>

Relate.Language.sec={Relate.Language.English.sec}

//=Eliminating the section on the precedence of schedules vs. the Agreement.

Misc.Precedence.LI=</i>

//=Cross references and handles.

P1.Handle={_P1}

P2.Handle={_P2}

//=Default is no Annexes.  But can add back in by stating "Annex.Div={Annex.Sec}".

Annex.Div=</i>

=[G/Agt-Outline-Universal-CmA/Outline/Base/0.md]