
Ti=Dispute Resolution (Delaware Rapid Arbitration Act)

LawyersNote=removed "hereby" from "... hereby waives....", aligning with the IRA version. 

1.1.sec=The parties hereto agree that any dispute or controversy arising out of, relating to, or in connection with this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby (a “{DefT.Dispute}”) shall be arbitrated pursuant to the Delaware Rapid Arbitration Act, 10 Del. C § 5801, et seq. (the “{DefT.DRAA}”).

1.2.sec=The parties agree to take all steps necessary or advisable to submit any Dispute that cannot be resolved by the parties for arbitration under the DRAA (the “{DefT.Arbitration}”) in accordance with this Section {Xnum}, and each party represents and warrants that it is not a “consumer” as such term is defined in 6 Del. C. § 2731. 

1.3.0.sec=By executing this Agreement,

1.3.1.sec=each party waives, and acknowledges and agrees that it shall be deemed to have waived, any objection to the application of the procedures set forth in the DRAA,

1.3.2.sec=consents to the procedures set forth in the DRAA, and

1.3.3.sec=acknowledges and agrees that it has chosen freely to waive the matters set forth in sections (b) and (c) of Section 5803 of the DRAA. 

1.3.=[G/Z/ol-i/s3]

1.4.sec=In connection therewith, each party understands and agrees that it shall raise no objection to the submission of the Dispute to Arbitration in accordance with this Section {Xnum} and that it waives any right to lay claim to jurisdiction in any venue and any and all rights to have the Dispute decided by a jury.

1.=[G/Z/para/s4]

2.sec=The Arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with the Delaware Rapid Arbitration Rules, as such Rules may be amended or changed from time to time; provided that the parties may agree to depart from the Rules by (i) adopting new or different rules to govern the Arbitration or (ii) modifying or rejecting the application of certain of the Rules. To be effective, any departure from the Rules shall require the consent of the Arbitrator and shall be in writing and signed by an authorized representative of each such party.

LawyersNote=Wilmington DE is the default location for the arbitration, aligning with IRA.

3.sec=The Arbitration shall take place in {Seat.such-location.?} as the parties and the Arbitrator may agree.

Seat.such-location.?=Wilminton, Delaware or such other location


4.sec=The Arbitration shall be presided over by one (1) arbitrator (the “{DefT.Arbitrator}”) who shall be {DelawareRapidArbAct.Arbitrator.Who.cl}. In the event that {DelawareRapidArbAct.Arbitrator.Who.cl} fails to accept appointment as Arbitrator for any reason within five (5) days of being notified of such person’s appointment or otherwise becomes unwilling or unable to serve as arbitrator, the parties shall promptly meet and confer to identify a mutually agreeable replacement arbitrator (the “{DefT.Replacement_Arbitrator}”). The Replacement Arbitrator shall be {DelawareRapidArbAct.ReplacementArbitrator.Who.cl}. In the event that the parties are unable to agree upon the identity of the Replacement Arbitrator within forty-five (45) days of the commencement of the Arbitration, or the Replacement Arbitrator is unable or unwilling to serve, then either party may file a petition with the Court of Chancery pursuant to Section 5805 of the DRAA.

5.sec=Each of the parties shall, subject to such limitations as the Arbitrator may prescribe, be entitled to collect documents and testimony from each other party, and the Arbitrator shall have the power to administer oaths and compel the production of witnesses and documents. The Arbitrator shall have the power to issue subpoenas and commissions for the taking of documents and testimony from third parties.

6.sec=The Arbitrator shall conduct the hearing, administer oaths, and make such rulings as are appropriate to the conduct of the proceedings. The Arbitrator shall allow each of the parties an opportunity to present evidence and witnesses and to cross examine witnesses presented by the opposing party.

7.1.0.sec=The arbitral award (the “{DefT.Award}”) shall

7.1.1.sec=be rendered within {DelawareRapidArbAct.AwardWithin.days} after the Arbitrator’s acceptance of his or her appointment;

DelawareRapidArbAct.AwardWithin.days=one hundred and twenty (120) days

7.1.2.sec=be delivered in writing;

7.1.3.sec=state the reasons for the Award;

7.1.4.sec=be the sole and exclusive final and binding remedy with respect to the Dispute between and among the parties without the possibility of challenge or appeal, which are hereby waived; and

7.1.5.sec=be accompanied by a form of judgment.

7.1.=[G/Z/ol-i/s5]

7.2.sec=The Award shall be deemed an award of the United States, the relationship between the parties shall be deemed commercial in nature, and any Dispute arbitrated pursuant to this Section {Xnum} shall be deemed commercial.

7.3.sec=The Arbitrator shall have the authority to grant any equitable or legal remedies, including, without limitation, entering preliminary or permanent injunctive relief; provided, however, that the Arbitrator shall not have the authority to award (and the parties waive the right to seek an award of) punitive or exemplary damages.

7.=[G/Z/paras/s3]

8.1.0.sec=The parties hereto agree that, subject to any non-waivable disclosure obligations under federal law, the Arbitration, and all matters relating thereto or arising thereunder, including, without limitation, the existence of the Dispute, the Arbitration and all of its elements (including any pleadings, briefs or other documents submitted or exchanged, any testimony or other oral submissions, {DelawareRapidArbAct.3PartyDiscovery.cl} and any decision of the Arbitrator or Award), shall be kept strictly confidential, and each party hereby agrees that such information shall not be disclosed beyond:

DelawareRapidArbAct.3PartyDiscovery.cl=any third-party discovery proceedings, including any discovery obtained pursuant thereto,

8.1.1.sec=the Arbitrator and necessary support personnel;

8.1.2.sec=the participants in the Arbitration;

8.1.3.sec=those assisting the parties in the preparation or presentation of the Arbitration;

8.1.4.sec=other employees or agents of the parties with a need to know such information; and

8.1.5.sec=any third parties that are subpoenaed or otherwise provide discovery in the Arbitration proceedings, only to the extent necessary to obtain such discovery.

8.1.=[G/Z/ol-i/s5]

8.2.sec=In all events, the parties [and any third parties] participating in the Arbitration proceedings shall treat information pertaining to the Arbitration with the same care that they treat their most valuable proprietary secrets.

8.3.sec=In the event that federal law imposes upon either party an obligation to disclose the fact of the Arbitration or the nature of the claims or counterclaims asserted, such party(ies) shall disclose no more than the minimum information required by law after first consulting with and attempting in good faith to reach agreement with the opposing party(-ies) regarding the scope and content of any such required disclosure.

8.=[G/Z/para/s3]

9.sec=Each party hereto shall bear its own legal fees and costs in connection with the Arbitration; provided, however, that each such party shall pay one-half of any filing fees, fees and expenses of the Arbitrator or other similar costs incurred by the parties in connection with the prosecution of the Arbitration.

LawyersNote="Respondent" is defined but not used in the SPA form. It is removed in the IRA form.  So have removed it here but left a target. Could be (the “{DefT.Respondent}”)

DefT.Respondent=</>

10.sec=Notwithstanding any provisions of this Agreement, or any statute protecting the confidentiality of the Arbitration and proceedings taken in connection therewith, in the event that either party in the Arbitration {DefT.Respondent} is required to defend himself, herself or itself in response to later proceedings instituted by the other in any court, relating to matters decided in the Arbitration, such party shall be relieved of any obligation to hold confidential the Arbitration and its proceedings in order to submit, confidentially if and to the extent possible, sufficient information to such court to allow it to determine whether the doctrines of res judicata, collateral estoppel, bar by judgment, or other, similar doctrines apply to such subsequent proceedings.

LawyersNote=The IRA correctly uses "DRAA" instead of "Act" to refer to the DRAA. Conforming the SPA to the IRA.

11.sec=Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this Section {Xnum}, if any amendment to the DRAA is enacted after the date of this Agreement, and such amendment would render any provision of this Section {Xnum} unenforceable thereunder, such provision shall be excluded and the remaining provisions of this Section {Xnum} shall be enforced to the fullest extent permitted by law.

Optional:

12.Alt1.sec=Any challenge to the final award of the Arbitrator shall be brought before the Supreme Court of the State of Delaware within the time frame provided in the DRAA, and pursuant to the Rules of such Court.

Alternative A:

12.Alt2.sec=Any challenge to the final award of the Arbitrator shall be made before a panel of three (3) appellate arbitrators, who shall be {DelawareRapidArbAct.AppellateArbitrators.Who.cl}. The appellate panel may only vacate, modify, or correct the final award in conformity with the Federal Arbitration Act.

[Alternative B:

12.Alt3.sec=Any challenge to the final award of the Arbitrator shall be made before a panel of three (3) appellate arbitrators, who shall be {DelawareRapidArbAct.AppellateArbitrators.Who.cl}. The scope of the appeal shall not be limited to the scope of a challenge under the Federal Arbitration Act, but instead shall be the same as any appeal from a judgment in a civil action filed in court.

12.SecName={SecName}12

12.AltPrompt=There are complex choices and subchoices here. Work carefully. Probably requires some HTML

12.=[G/Z/Alt/3]

=[G/Z/ol/s12]

WithAppealToCourt.xlist=<ol><li>{1.sec}</li><li>{2.sec}</li><li>{3.sec}</li><li>{4.sec}</li><li>{5.sec}</li><li>{6.sec}</li><li>{7.sec}</li><li>{8.sec}</li><li>{9.sec}</li><li>{10.sec}</li><li>{11.sec}</li><li>{12.Alt1.sec}</li></ol>

WithAppealToCourt.=[G/Z/Base]

WithAppealTo3ArbsPerArbAct.xlist=<ol><li>{1.sec}</li><li>{2.sec}</li><li>{3.sec}</li><li>{4.sec}</li><li>{5.sec}</li><li>{6.sec}</li><li>{7.sec}</li><li>{8.sec}</li><li>{9.sec}</li><li>{10.sec}</li><li>{11.sec}</li><li>{12.Alt2.sec}</li></ol>

WithAppealTo3ArbsPerArbAct.=[G/Z/Base]

WithAppealTo3ArbsPerCivilAppeal.xlist=<ol><li>{1.sec}</li><li>{2.sec}</li><li>{3.sec}</li><li>{4.sec}</li><li>{5.sec}</li><li>{6.sec}</li><li>{7.sec}</li><li>{8.sec}</li><li>{9.sec}</li><li>{10.sec}</li><li>{11.sec}</li><li>{12.Alt3.sec}</li></ol>

WithAppealTo3ArbsPerCivilAppeal.=[G/Z/Base]