Ti=Guiding Questions

1.0.sec=How to make it easy for non-programmers to use programming tools and methods to find, use and create open source solutions to transacting and other non-programming domains.

1.1.sec=Use of git.

1.2.sec=Use of text editors and IDEs.

1.3.sec=In what ways should the functions of the "Prose Object" format be extended?

1.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

2.0.sec=Formalization and generalization of the object model.

2.1.sec=A formal expression of the object model, submission to a standards-setting organization (Kantara Initiative?).  Compatible in plain text (current), JSON, XML, databases, graph databases, IPLD(?), etc. 

2.2.sec=Interfaces to existing transacting systems - Apttus, Oracle, Amazon, Paypal, Apple Pay, ....

2.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

3.0.sec=How can AI/NLP be used to:

3.1.sec=Assist a person organizing a transaction (party, advisor, lawyer, intermediary) to find an appropriate offering and supplier, decide on a structure, decide on deal points, identify risks, schedule the events of performance, add the experience obtained from the transaction to their predictions in the future. 

3.2.sec=Organize structured information (Prose Objects) from historical transacting resources, such as model agreement forms or transaction portfolios maintained in Contract Management Systems.

3.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

4.sec=What other efforts to open source transacting seem important, complementary, competitive?  Will these converge into a single platform like online converged into TCP/IP?  Zittrain "generative" element of collaboration.

5.sec=To what extent can "law" be defined algorithmically?  Legalese, Lexon, Oliver Goodenough, Michael Genesereth, etc.  Do big data methods make this question moot -- all of transacting can be managed as patterns?  As self-driving systems are based on experience, perhaps all of legal can be a matter of identifying paths that usually work well and those that work less well.  Abuses (e.g., bias), inability to provide explanations, the HAL problem.

6.0.sec=How to engage actors in the legal system to participate in creating and maintaining solutions?

6.1.sec=The multitude of trade groups, arbitration associations, bar associations, model document projects and the like.  Notably the International Association for Contract and Commercial Management, the American Law Institute, EcoVadis, the FDA, National Venture Capital Association.  

6.2.sec=The innovation forefront - LegalHackers, Accord Project, OpenLaw.io, ABA Innovation Center, etc.

6.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

7.0.sec=What are ideal object models for legal documents, drawing on the vast experience of legal drafters and the learning of software coding?

7.1.sec=Inheritance from very general forms, modularity, etc.

7.2.sec=Systematic use of "defined terms," of "schedules," etc.

7.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

8.sec=What governance systems for codified materials?  Public functions, civil society function, trade group function, commercial publishers, etc.  Law school and bar association participation?

=[G/Z/ol/s8]