
Ti=PRIVACY TERMS

Data_Subject.Ti=Data Subject

Data_Subject.sec=A Data Subject may refer to an individual, organization, product, event, or any other person, place, or thing about which data is collected.  

Data_Subject.Note=This definition is scoped more broadly than traditional privacy policies or Data Subject definitions.

Data_Subject.=[G/responsible-data-use-policy/PrOb/RDSP-Def/Sec/Z/Sec.md]

Dataset.Ti=Dataset

Dataset.sec=A Dataset is information that contains attributes about or relations between one or more Data Subjects.

Dataset.=[G/responsible-data-use-policy/PrOb/RDSP-Def/Sec/Z/Sec.md]

Personally_Identifiable_Information.Ti=Personally Identifiable Information

Personally_Identifiable_Information.sec=Personally Identifiable Information is any and all information that could be interpreted as relating to individuals under a statute, regulation, or ruling related to the Organization.  Privacy frameworks vary across jurisdictions and industries in their classification of personally identifiable information, and this definition is meant to capture information under all such relevant frameworks.

Personally_Identifiable_Information.Synomyms=Personally Identifying Information, PII, Personal Information, Personal Data

Personally_Identifiable_Information.=[G/responsible-data-use-policy/PrOb/RDSP-Def/Sec/Z/Sec.md]

Pseudo-anonymization.Ti=Pseudo-anonymization

Pseudo-anonymization.sec=Pseudo-anonymization is the process of transforming data to increase the cost or decrease the probability of inferring selected information about a Data Subject.  The term anonymization is used colloquially to describe pseudo-anonymization which results in either a cost exceeding reasonable feasibility or a probability approaching zero.

Pseudo-anonymization.Synonyms=pseudo-anonymisation 

Pseudo-anonymization.SeeAlso=anonymization

Pseudo-anonymization.=[G/responsible-data-use-policy/PrOb/RDSP-Def/Sec/Z/Sec.md]

Anonymization.Ti=Anonymization

Anonymization.sec=Anonymization is a term used to describe a pseudo-anonymization process which results in either a cost exceeding reasonable feasibility or a probability approaching zero of inferring selected information about a Data Subject.  

Anonymization.Note=Anonymization is context-dependent; Personnel should consider the budget and resources of potential threat actors and monitor trends in computation, storage, and data breach that might otherwise reduce the cost of de-anonymizing a Dataset that was previously deemed to be Anonymized.

Anonymization.Synonyms=anonymisation

Anonymization.SeeAlso=pseudo-anonymization

Anonymization.=[G/responsible-data-use-policy/PrOb/RDSP-Def/Sec/Z/Sec.md]

Re-identification.Ti=Re-identification

Re-identification.sec=Re-identification is the process of inferring Data Subject identity from data that has been previously omitted or pseudo-anonymized.

Re-identification.Synonyms=de-anonymization, de-anonymisation, identity disclosure

Re-identification.=[G/responsible-data-use-policy/PrOb/RDSP-Def/Sec/Z/Sec.md]

K-Anonymity.Ti=K-Anonymity

K-Anonymity.sec=k-anonymity is a measure of the size of the smallest group of Data Subjects indistinguishable from each other by their attributes within a pseudo-anonymized dataset.  If a dataset has k=1-anonymity, then there is at least one Data Subject with unique attributes that is at increased risk of re-identification.  In general, datasets with larger k-anonymity values have lower probabilities of re-identification than those with lower value.  However, approaches based on k-anonymity may be vulnerable to targeted attacks that could be avoided through the use of l-diversity or t-closeness metrics.

K-Anonymity.SeeAlso=l-diversity, t-closeness

K-Anonymity.=[G/responsible-data-use-policy/PrOb/RDSP-Def/Sec/Z/Sec.md]

L-Diversity_and_T-Closeness.Ti=L-Diversity and T-Closeness

L-Diversity_and_T-Closeness.sec=l-diversity and t-closeness are a family of measures of the distribution of sensitive attributes within groups of Data Subjects in a dataset, such as through the number of distinct values or attribute entropy.  In general, datasets with larger l-diversity or t-closeness values have lower probabilities of re-identification than those with lower values.  Privacy approaches based on l-diversity and t-closeness are generally less susceptible to attack than those based on k-anonymity. t-closeness is a refinement of l-diversity that provides a higher degree of differential privacy.

L-Diversity_and_T-Closeness.SeeAlso=k-anonymity

L-Diversity_and_T-Closeness.=[G/responsible-data-use-policy/PrOb/RDSP-Def/Sec/Z/Sec.md]

Motivated_Intruder.Ti=Motivated Intruder

Motivated_Intruder.sec=A hypothetical threat actor whose goal is to re-identify one or more Data Subjects from a Pseudo-Anonymized Dataset.  This threat actor has access to reasonably-accessible sources of information, such as public records or information leaked via other data breaches.  Typically, this hypothetical threat actor is used to construct estimates of the cost or probability of re-identification for a given Data Subject or Dataset.

L-Diversity_and_T-Closeness.=[G/responsible-data-use-policy/PrOb/RDSP-Def/Sec/Z/Sec.md]


sec=<ol><li>{Data_Subject.Sec}</li><li>{Dataset.Sec}</li><li>{Personally_Identifiable_Information.Sec}</li><li>{Pseudo-anonymization.Sec}</li><li>{Anonymization.Sec}</li><li>{Re-identification.Sec}</li><li>{K-Anonymity.Sec}</li><li>{L-Diversity_and_T-Closeness.Sec}</li><li>{L-Diversity_and_T-Closeness.Sec}</li></ol>

CodersNote=Deleting the "Example" field.

=[G/Z/Base]
