Ti=TERMS

1.Ti=What is this agreement about?

1.1.Ti=Purpose

1.1.sec=The parties are entering into this Data Processing Agreement (DPA) for the purpose of processing Personal Data (as defined above).

1.2.Ti=Definitions

1.2.0.sec=Under this DPA: 

CodersNote=The following list can be as short as items 1and2, or 1,2and3 or 1,2,3and4.  Because we have a ready-made widget for lists with semi-colons, we have used it.  Could add a sec={secs,and} alternative in future.

1.2.1.sec=adequate country means a country or territory that is recognised under Data Protection Laws from time to time as providing adequate protection for processing Personal Data

1.2.2.sec=Controller, data subject, personal data breach, process/processing, Processor and supervisory authority have the same meanings as in the Data Protection Laws

1.2.3.sec=Business and Service Provider have the same meanings as in the [CCPA/CPRA]

1.2.4.sec=Sub-Processor means another processor engaged by the Processor to carry out specific processing activities with Personal Data

1.2.secs={1.2.secs;and}

1.2.=[G/Z/ol-a/s2]

1.2.=[G/Z/ol-a/s4]

1.=[G/Z/ol/2]
 
ToProcessor.1.sec={1.sec}

ToProcessor.=[G/OneNDA-DPA/Form/Terms/ToProcessor/0.md]

Model.Root={ToProcessor.Sec}


[INDEPENDENT CONTROLLER-CONTROLLER RELATIONSHIPS]

2.	What are each party’s obligations?

2.1	Mutual obligations. Each party will:
(a)	only process Personal Data in accordance with this DPA (unless legally required to do otherwise),
(b)	use the technical and organisational measures described in Annex 1 when processing Personal Data to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk involved for each of the parties, and
(c)	without undue delay, provide the other party with reasonable assistance with responses to data subjects’ requests to exercise their rights under Data Protection Laws.
2.2	Warranties. The parties warrant that they and any staff and/or subcontractors will comply with their respective obligations under Data Protection Laws for the Term.

3.	International personal data transfers

3.1	Transfer mechanism. Where a party processes Personal Data outside the UK, the EEA or an adequate country: 
(a)	that party will act as the data importer,
(b)	the other party is the data exporter, and
(c)	the relevant Transfer Mechanism will apply.
3.2	Additional measures. If the Transfer Mechanism is insufficient to safeguard the transferred Personal Data, the data importer will promptly implement supplementary measures to ensure Personal Data is protected to the same standard as required under Data Protection Laws.
3.3	Disclosures. Subject to the terms of the relevant Transfer Mechanism, If the data importer receives a request from a public authority to access Personal Data, it will (if legally allowed):
(a)	challenge the request and notify the data exporter about it, and
(b)	only disclose to the public authority the minimum amount of Personal Data required and keep a record of the disclosure. 

 


5.Ti=	Other important information

5.1	Survival. Any provision of this DPA which is intended to survive the Term will remain in full force.
5.2	Order of precedence. In case of a conflict between this DPA and other relevant agreements, they will take priority in this order: 
(a)	Transfer Mechanism,
(b)	DPA,
(c)	Main Agreement.
5.3	Notices. Formal notices under this DPA must be in writing and sent to the Contact on the DPA’s front page as may be updated by a party to the other in writing.
5.4	Third parties. Except for affiliates, no one other than a party to this DPA has the right to enforce any of its terms.
5.5	Entire agreement. This DPA supersedes all prior discussions and agreements and constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with respect to its subject matter and neither party has relied on any statement or representation of any person in entering into this DPA.
5.6	Amendments. Any amendments to this DPA must be agreed in writing.
5.7	Assignment. Neither party can assign this DPA to anyone else without the other party's consent. 
5.8	Waiver. If a party fails to enforce a right under this DPA, that is not a waiver of that right at any time.
5.9	Governing law and jurisdiction. The Governing Law applies to this DPA and all disputes will only be litigated in the courts of the Jurisdiction.


