
Ti=THE TECH CONTRACTS HANDBOOK

1.sec=Cloud Computing Agreements, Software Licenses, and Other IT Contracts for Lawyers and Businesspeople

2.sec=Second Edition

3.sec=by David W. Tollen

4.sec=(ABA Publishing - Intellectual Property Law Section of the American Bar Association; 2015)

5.sec=Form Contract

6.sec=Confidentiality (NDA) & Assignment Agreement

7.sec=Employee (but Easily Modified for Other Individual Staff-Member); Broad Assignment/Ownership Transfer; One-Way NDA

8.sec=You may use the form contract below subject to the “Terms of Use” posted at https://techcontracts.com/terms-of-use-and-privacy-policy/. In addition to the Terms of Use, PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING DISCLAIMER BEFORE USING THE FORM CONTRACT:

9.sec=NEITHER TECH CONTRACTS ACADEMY, LLC™ NOR THE AUTHOR OR PUBLISHER, OR ANYONE AFFILIATED WITH THEM, REPRESENTS THAT THE FORM CONTRACT BELOW WILL MEET YOUR SPECIFIC GOALS, PROTECT YOUR SPECIFIC INTERESTS, OR WITHSTAND CHALLENGES TO ITS LEGAL OR FACTUAL SUFFICIENCY. The form contract below is general in nature and may not be sufficient for a specific contractual, technological, or legal problem or dispute. THE FORM IS NOT PROVIDED WITH ANY GUARANTY, WARRANTY, OR REPRESENTATION AS TO QUALITY OR SUITABILITY FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Publication of the form does not constitute the practice of law and is not legal counsel or advice. Neither Tech Contracts Academy, LLC™ or the author or the publisher of this website or The Tech Contracts Handbook, or anyone affiliated with them, is rendering a legal or other professional service. The form should not be relied upon as a substitute for consultation with an attorney.

10.sec=Note that this document uses Microsoft Word multi-level bullets/numbering for section numbers and cross-referencing features for section references.

11.sec=Please delete all text above the following dotted line, as well as the line itself and the page-break following it, before using this form.

=[G/Z/ol/s11]
