
Ti=General Legal {_Terms}

1.Ti=Entire Agreement

1.sec=This {_Agreement} contains the entire understanding of the parties hereto relating to the {_Service} and supersedes any prior or contemporaneous written or oral agreement or understandings between the parties with respect to the {_Service}, and cannot be changed or terminated orally. This {_Agreement} may be amended only in writing signed by the authorized representatives of the parties hereto.

2.Ti=Severability; Waiver

2.sec=If any provision in this {_Agreement} is invalid or unenforceable, that provision shall be reformed to the maximum extent allowed by law to reflect the same economic effect as the invalid or unenforceable provision, and the other provisions of this {_Agreement} shall remain in full force and effect. No waiver of any right under this {_Agreement} shall be deemed effective unless contained in writing and signed by a duly authorized representative of the party purporting to make the waiver, and no waiver of any past or present right arising from any breach or failure to perform shall be deemed to be a waiver of any future right arising under this {_Agreement}.

3.Ti=Assignment

3.sec={_You} may not assign or transfer this {_Agreement}, by operation of law or otherwise, without the prior written consent of {_Site_Name}. All rights and obligations arising out of this {_Agreement} shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding on and enforceable by the parties and their respective permitted successors and permitted assigns.

4.Ti=Independent Contractors

4.sec={_You} and {_Site_Name} shall perform their duties pursuant to this {_Agreement} as independent contractors. Nothing in this {_Agreement} shall be construed to create a joint venture, partnership or other joint relationship between {_You} and {_Site_Name}. Neither party shall have the ability to incur any obligation on behalf of the other party.

5.Ti=Compliance with Laws

5.sec={_You} shall use and distribute the {_Application}(s) in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations, including (without limitation) export laws and regulations and those laws and regulations designed to protect against the unauthorized use and disclosure of personally identifiable information. Each party shall comply with the export laws and regulations of {Law.Jurisdiction.Name} and other applicable jurisdictions. Without limiting the foregoing, (i) each party represents that it is not named on any {Law.Jurisdiction.Name} or US government list of persons or entities prohibited from receiving exports, and (ii) {_You} shall not access or use Products in violation of any {Law.Jurisdiction.Name} and US export embargo, prohibition or restriction.

6.Ti=Governing Law

6.sec=This {_Agreement} shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of {Law.Jurisdiction.Name} without regard to its conflicts of laws provisions. Each party agrees that any claim or cause of action arising under or relating to this {_Agreement} will be brought in a court of competent jurisdiction located in {Forum.Location.Place} and each party irrevocably consents to such personal jurisdiction and waives all objections thereto. The parties agree that neither the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods nor the Uniform Computer Information Transactions Act (UCITA) will apply in any respect to this {_Agreement}.

7.Ti=Force Majeure

7.sec=A party’s performance under this {_Agreement} is excused if that party is unable to perform under this {_Agreement} due to an event beyond its reasonable control, including without limitation, natural disasters, labor unrest, government restrictions, and the like.

8.Ti=Notices

8.sec={_You} agree that {_Site_Name} may provide {_You} with notices, including those regarding changes to the {_Terms}, by email, regular mail, or postings on the {_Service}. By providing your email address, {_You} consent to our using the email address to send {_You} any notices required by law in lieu of communication by postal mail.

=[G/Z/ol/8]
