0.sec=The Certificate of Incorporation of this company is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:

1.sec=The name of this company is {Company.Name.Full} (the "Company" or the "Corporation").

2.sec=The address of the registered office of this Corporation in the State of Delaware is {Company.Regist.Adr.1,2}, and the name of the registered agent of this Corporation in the State of Delaware at such address is {Company.Regist.Agent.Name.Full}.

3.sec=The purpose of the Company is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which a corporation may be organized under the Delaware General Corporation Law ("DGCL").

4.=[F/US/00/Agt/Startup/Techstars/Equity/COI/Sec/Issue/0.md]

5.1.sec=The liability of the directors of the Company for monetary damages shall be eliminated to the fullest extent under applicable law.

5.2.sec=Any repeal or modification of this Article V shall only be prospective and shall not affect the rights under this Article V in effect at the time of the alleged occurrence of any action or omission to act giving rise to liability.

5.=[Z/ol/s2]

6.0.sec=For the management of the business and for the conduct of the affairs of the Company, and in further definition, limitation and regulation of the powers of the Company, of its directors and of its stockholders or any class thereof, as the case may be, it is further provided that:

6.1.sec=The management of the business and the conduct of the affairs of the Company shall be vested in its Board.  The number of directors which shall constitute the whole Board shall be fixed by the Board in the manner provided in the Bylaws, subject to any restrictions which may be set forth in this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation.

6.2.sec=The Board is expressly empowered to adopt, amend or repeal the Bylaws.  The stockholders shall also have the power to adopt, amend or repeal the Bylaws; provided, however, that in addition to any vote of the holders of any class or series of stock of the Company required by law or by this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of all of the then-outstanding shares of the capital stock of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, shall be required to adopt, amend or repeal any provision of the Bylaws.

6.3.sec=The directors of the Company need not be elected by written ballot unless the Bylaws so provide.

6.=[Z/ol/s3]

=[Z/ol/s6]
