Ti=Control Objectives 

Intro.sec=The <b>Privacy and Security Policy </b>specifically builds upon the <b>Framework’s </b>Core Element: “Privacy, Data Protection and Confidentiality”. The <b>Data Security Infrastructure Policy </b>recommends technical safeguards, standards, guidelines, and best practices for implementing and operating a technology infrastructure that will enable individual stakeholders to implement GA4GH standards safely, and to enforce the <b>Policy </b>defined for the GA4GH ecosystem. 

Objective.0.sec=Thus, the <b>Data Security Infrastructure Policy </b>is defined to meet the following six control objectives that respond to the risks identified in the above sub-section. 

Objective.1.sec=- <b>Control Objective 1</b>: Implement technology safeguards to minimize the risk of unauthorized access, use, or disclosure of confidential and private data. 

Objective.2.sec=- <b>Control Objective 2</b>: Implement technology safeguards to minimize the risk of discovery, access, and use of individuals’ clinical and genomic data, and individual identities, other than as authorized by applicable jurisdictional law, institutional policy, and individual consents. 

Objective.3.sec=- <b>Control Objective 3</b>: Implement technology safeguards to minimize the risk of accidental or malicious corruption or destruction of data. 

Objective.4.sec=- <b>Control Objective 4</b>: Implement technology safeguards to minimize the risk of disruption, degradation, and interruption of services enabling access to data. 

Objective.5.sec=- <b>Control Objective 5</b>: Implement technology safeguards to minimize the risk of potential security attacks and misuse of authorized accesses and privileges. 

Objective.6.sec=- <b>Control Objective 6</b>: Implement technology safeguards to promptly detect the failure to attain the above control objectives and to respond with proper countermeasures. 

Objective.=[G/Z/ol-none/s6]

sec=<ol><li>{Intro.sec}<li>{Objective.sec}</ol>

=[G/Z/Base]