Ti=Rent

0.sec=Each month Tenant shall pay the RENT listed above. Payment of RENT and all other billed charges is due in advance on the first (1st) day of each month for that month. Payment is past due if not paid by 5:00 p.m. on the fifth (5th) day of the month.

1.sec=Billed Utility and other charges are also due by the first day of each month. If the entire amount owed by tenant is not paid by the 6th day of each month, Tenant must pay a late charge of {LateFee.$}. Tenant must also pay owner a N.S.F. Charge handling charge equal to the amount charged to the Lessor for each check returned due to insufficient funds in Tenant’s account or for any other reason the bank gives for returning a check.

2.sec=As a separate independent covenant, Lessor may demand the LATE CHARGE and N.S.F. charge in a three day “pay or quit” or “perform covenants or quit” notice in the month of default.  All rents and other charges shall be paid by check or money. Owner may, however, upon 10 days written notice, required that payment be made in cash, money order, certified funds or equivalent for the period allowed by law only. Monies received for rent or utility payments may be applied to the earliest outstanding sums (“first in, first out”) despite any contrary instructions or endorsements purporting to restrict application of payments to a specific month or time period, or purporting to extinguish all arrearage due.  Partial payments received shall not be construed as an accord and satisfaction or release of other debt, despite any purported instructions or endorsements to the contrary.  The period of time prior to the imposition of the late charge is not a grace period or option to pay late.

=[G/Z/ol-AA/s2]
