Ti=RECREATIONAL VEHICLE RENTAL AGREEMENT

0.1.0.sec=SPACE INFORMATION

0.1.1.sec=Space No. {Space.#} (“Space”).  

0.1.2.sec=This agreement (“Agreement”) is entered into on {EffectiveDate.YMD} by and between the park owner (“Lessor”) of {Park.Name}, located at: {Park.Adr.1,2} and Tenant(s): {Tenant.Names} (severally and collectively “Tenant”). Household Members (list all): {Tenant.HouseholdNames}

0.1.3.0.sec=This Agreement is for the rental of the Space in the Park, from Lessor to Tenant, for recreational vehicle tenancy, for a term as follows (select one):

0.1.3.1.sec={Term.Month} month to month; (or) 

0.1.3.2.sec={Term.Months} # of months (not to exceed 8 months), unless sooner terminated in accordance with the terms and conditions of this agreement.

0.1.4.sec=Security Deposit: {Deposit.$}

0.1.5.sec=Beginning Monthly Rent: {Rent.$} (Please note: rent may be increased during term with 30 days’ notice)

0.1.=[G/Z/ol-none/s5]

0.2.Ti=RECREATIONAL VEHICLE INFORMATION

0.2.0.sec=Information on Recreational Vehicle Described in this Agreement:

0.2.1.sec=Registered Owner:	{Unit.RegisteredOwner.Name.Full}							

0.2.2.sec=Address:	{Unit.RegisteredOwner.Adr.1,2}					

0.2.3.sec=Telephone Number: {Unit.RegisteredOwner.Phone.#}						

0.2.4.sec=Legal Owner:	{Unit.LegalOwner.Name.Full}			

0.2.5.sec=Address:	{Unit.LegalOwner.Adr.1,2}			

0.2.6.sec=Telephone: {Unit.LegalOwner.Phone}							

0.2.7.sec=Make of RV	{Unit.Manufacturer.Name}							

0.2.8.sec=Year/Model of RV	{Unit.Model}						

0.2.9.sec=Vehicle ID Nos. {Unit.ID.#}							

0.2.10.sec=License/Decal Nos. {Unit.License.#}

0.2.=[G/Z/ol-none/s10]

0.3.1.sec=TENANT AGREES TO RENT THE SPACE AT THE ADDRESS ABOVE, FOR THE PERIOD AND ACCORDING TO THE TERMS SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT. TENANT MUST PROVIDE THEIR OWN RECREATIONAL VEHICLE AND IS SOLELY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.

0.3.2.sec=NOTE: REMOVAL OF A RECREATIONAL VEHICLE DURING FIRST 30 DAYS OF OCCUPANCY: Any Tenant who fails to pay for his or her occupancy in the park or who fails to comply with reasonable written rules and regulations of the park within the first thirty (30) days of occupancy, given upon registration, or subsequently legally established may, in addition to all other rights and remedies of the Lessor, have his or her recreational vehicle removed from the park as provided for in Civil Code §799.22 upon 72 hours of written notice.  The telephone number of the local law enforcement agency is: {LawEnforcement.Phone.#}

0.3.=[G/Z/paras/s2]

0.=[G/Z/paras/s3]

1.Ti=TERM:

1.sec=Tenant hereby rents the Space for the term stated above.  Either the Tenant or Lessor may terminate this agreement on thirty (30) days written notice pursuant to Civil Code §799.45(a). In the event that the tenant has resided for nine (9) or more months, then the tenant may terminate this agreement on sixty (60) days written notice to Lessor and Lessor may terminate this Agreement as provided under the Mobilehome Residency Law (Civil Code §§798 et seq.) On any termination of this Agreement, Tenant must remove the recreational vehicle from the Space or it will be disposed of by Lessor as permitted under Civil Code §799.75 and other applicable law.

2.Ti=RENT

2.0.sec=Each month Tenant shall pay the RENT listed above. Payment of RENT and all other billed charges is due in advance on the first (1st) day of each month for that month. Payment is past due if not paid by 5:00 p.m. on the fifth (5th) day of the month.

2.1.sec=Billed Utility and other charges are also due by the first day of each month. If the entire amount owed by tenant is not paid by the 6th day of each month, Tenant must pay a late charge of {LateFee.$}. Tenant must also pay owner a N.S.F. Charge handling charge equal to the amount charged to the Lessor for each check returned due to insufficient funds in Tenant’s account or for any other reason the bank gives for returning a check.

2.2.sec=As a separate independent covenant, Lessor may demand the LATE CHARGE and N.S.F. charge in a three day “pay or quit” or “perform covenants or quit” notice in the month of default.  All rents and other charges shall be paid by check or money. Owner may, however, upon 10 days written notice, required that payment be made in cash, money order, certified funds or equivalent for the period allowed by law only. Monies received for rent or utility payments may be applied to the earliest outstanding sums (“first in, first out”) despite any contrary instructions or endorsements purporting to restrict application of payments to a specific month or time period, or purporting to extinguish all arrearage due.  Partial payments received shall not be construed as an accord and satisfaction or release of other debt, despite any purported instructions or endorsements to the contrary.  The period of time prior to the imposition of the late charge is not a grace period or option to pay late.

2.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s2]

3.Ti=SUBMETERED / SEPARATE CHARGED UTILITIES

3.0.0.sec=The utilities identified in paragraph 3 will be separately charged or included in rent as set forth:

3.0.1.0.sec=(Select Separately Billed Utilities and Other Charges):

3.0.1.1.sec=!!ToDo	Electricity 	     Natural Gas 	Propane 	Water  $	Trash $	Sewer $	CATV  	Taxes/		Day      	Month $ OTHER(Describe):		

3.0.1.=[G/Z/ol-none/s1]

3.0.2.0.sec=(Select Utilities Included in the Rent):

3.0.2.1.sec=Electricity 	     Natural Gas 	Propane 	Water  $	Trash $	Sewer $	CATV  	Taxes/		Day      	Month $	OTHER(Describe):		

3.0.2.=[G/Z/ol-none/s1]

3.0.=[G/Z/ol-none/s2]

3.1.sec=Lessor reserves the right to submeter and charge separately for any utility or other charge included in rent. Billed submetered/separately charged utilities reflect charges for usage based on a closing meter reading taken at the space.

3.2.sec=Lessor is not liable for any interruptions, failures or intermittent disruption of utility services.  Accordingly, Tenant is not to be entitled to abatement or reduction of rent by reason of failure of utility service when failure is caused by accident, breakage, repairs, strikes, or other labor disputes or by nay other cause, similar or dissimilar, beyond the reasonable control of Lessor. Lessor is also not responsible for any variances or problems in the quality of utilities from servicing utility providers (such as condition, taste, color or smell of water; interruption of gas or electrical service; or problems with gas, electrical, water or sewer systems on Tenant’s side of the meter or hookup).

3.3.sec=Tenant shall not connect, except through existing electrical or natural gas outlets or water pipes on the Space, any apparatus or device for the purposes of using electric current natural gas or water.  Tenant is responsible for determining that its appliances and equipment used on or at the Space is compatible with the electric service of the Park, and Tenant agrees and acknowledges that Park has no liability or responsibly to Tenant if the available utilities are insufficient or not compatible. 

3.4.sec=With respect to a sudden or unforeseeable breakdown or deterioration in the facilities, equipment and other improvements, Lessor shall have responsible period of time to repair them and bring them into good working order and condition after owner knows or should have known of the breakdown or deterioration. A reasonable period of time to repair a sudden or unforeseeable breakdown or deterioration shall be as soon as possible in situations affecting a health and safety condition and shall not exceed 30 days in any other case except where exigent circumstances justify a delay. The rules and regulations, this Agreement, the other residency documents, and facilities, services, physical improvements, amenities, and quality or level of maintenance, may be changed at the Owner’s option from time to time during the term of the Agreement without reducing, discounting or off-setting the rent or changing other term of the provision of this agreement. 

3.5.sec=PLEASE NOTE: Tenant must use SURGE PROTECTORS FOR THE PROTECTION OF PROPERTY, particularly for computer equipment, stereo equipment, radios, and other appliances affected by disruptions, surges, or other irregularities in electrical service.

4.Ti=ENTRY UPON SPACE

4.sec=Lessor shall have a right of entry upon the Space for inspection, maintenance, reading of utility meters, serving notices, speaking to the Tenant, and the protection of the Park at any reasonable time but not so as to interfere with quiet enjoyment. Lessor is not responsible for the noise from other tenants, traffic, maintenance and cleaning. Lessor may enter the Space in the case of an emergency or when the Tenant has abandoned the Space. 

5.Ti=TERMINATION OF OCCUPANCY OR TENANCY BY PARK

5.sec=Until Tenant has resided for at least thirty (30) days, Tenant is deemed to be an Occupant pursuant to California Civil Code §799.28. A defaulting occupant’s recreational vehicle may be removed without any judicial hearing after the service of a Seventy-Two (72) Hour Notice pursuant to California Civil Code §799.56.  A defaulting occupant is defined pursuant to California Civil Code §799.22 to mean an occupant who fails to pay for his or her occupancy or who fails to comply with reasonable written Rules and Regulations given to the Tenant upon registration. 

6.Ti=REMOVAL OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLE

6.sec=Upon termination of this rental agreement, whether initiated by Lessor or by the Tenant, the Tenant must remove the recreational vehicle described above by the date on which this Agreement is terminated except where the incumbent tenant has resided for more than nine months.

7.Ti=REMOVAL ON SALE OR TRANSFER

7.sec=In the event of sale or other transfer, the recreational vehicle, MUST BE REMOVED FROM THE SPACE AND FROM THE PARK. There is no right to assign tenancy on sale of a recreational vehicle and it must be removed. California Civil Code §798.73: “The Lessor shall not require the removal of a mobilehome from the park in the event of its sale…However, MANAGEMENT MAY REQUIRE THAT A MOBILEHOME BE REMOVED FROM THE PARK WHERE: (A) IT IS NOT A “MOBILEHOME” WITHIN THE MEANING OF SECTION 798.3.

8.Ti=TERMINATION OF THIS AGREEMENT BY TENANT

8.sec=Tenant shall give no less than thirty (30) days written notice of intent to vacate.

9.Ti=NO ASSIGNING, RENTING OR SUBLETTING

9.sec=Tenant shall not assign, sublease or otherwise rent all or any portion of the recreational vehicle or the Space. At all times, Tenant must be a “legal” or “registered” owner of the recreational vehicle and that person must regularly occupy it.

10.Ti=NO WASTE, NUISANCE, OR DISTURBANCE OF THE PEACE

10.sec=Tenant shall do nothing which constitute waste, nuisance, disturbance of the peace or unreasonable annoyance to Park employees or others.  Tenant shall do nothing to cause or allow damage to the Space, Park or other property. Tenant shall do nothing which may cause cancellation or increase in the rate of insurance or increase costs of maintenance and repair to Lessor. No flammable, combustible, explosive or environmentally hazardous fluids, chemical or substance may be stored. 

11.Ti=USES AND ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED

11.sec=The recreational vehicle and the premises rented shall be used for the private residential purposes of Tenant and no business or commercial activity of any nature shall be conducted thereon. No persons other than Tenant and listed occupants may reside at the Space.

12.Ti=SECURITY INTEREST IN RECREATIONAL VEHICLE

12.sec=Where applicable, Lessor shall have and is hereby granted a security interest pursuant to the Uniform Commercial Code in the recreational vehicle and the contents therein for the proper charges, fees and rents due from a defaulting occupant or Tenant. This security interest is in addition to, and without limitation upon, the lien created by California Civil Code §799.75.

13.Ti=FIXTURES AND IMPROVEMENTS

13.sec=All plants, shrubs, and trees planted on the premises as well as all structure, including fences permanently embedded in the ground, blacktop, or concrete, or any structure permanently attached to the ground, including all fixtures, are Lessor’s property that may not be severed or removed by the Tenant.  Tenant shall maintain all fixtures and shall be solely responsible for each of them. 

14.Ti=WAIVER

14.sec=The delay or failure to take action because of (a) any breach of term, covenant, or condition, contained herein; or (b) the violation of any term of this Agreement, shall not be a waiver by Lessor. Acceptance of rent, service of warnings or notices, or failure thereof, is not a waiver.  If Tenant fails to meet any of its obligations of tenancy, a delay or omission by Lessor in exercising any right or remedy will not impair any rights or remedies prospectively, nor will it be considered a waiver. No waiver of owner’s right to enforce any provision of this Agreement after any default will be unless it is made in writing and signed by both parties, nor will it be considered a waiver of owner’s rights to enforce each and every provision of this Agreement upon any further or other default. Lessor may exercise any right under the terms of this Agreement or any other right, and do so after the date such right became effective, retroactivity to the effective date of the right.

15.Ti=TIME IS OF THE ESSENCE

15.sec=Time is of the essence of this agreement.

16.Ti=INTERPRETATION

16.sec=Each provision of this agreement is separate, distinct, and individually enforceable. In the event any provision is declared to be unlawful or unenforceable, the validity of all other provisions shall not be affected. This agreement is intended to be fair, and shall not be construed except as though drafted by both parties together.

17.Ti=INSPECTION OF THE PREMISES

17.sec=By signing this agreement, Tenant acknowledges Tenant has carefully inspected the SPACE to be rented and all the PARK’s facilities and have found them to be in every respect in good order and well maintained. Tenant agrees at the termination of this Agreement to peaceably surrender the Space in a clean and well-maintained condition.

18.Ti=SUBORDINATION

18.sec=This agreement and any leasehold interest which may be created by it shall be subordinate to nay encumbrance of record before or after the date of this agreement affecting the Park. Tenant agrees to execute and deliver any documents required to effectuate any subordination promptly upon request.  Further, Tenant hereby irrevocably appoints Lessor as special attorney-in-fact to execute and deliver such documents or instruments.

19.Ti=INTEGRATION

19.sec=Tenant agrees this Agreement contains the entire agreement between the parties regarding the rental of Space. All prior negotiations or statements or agreements are conclusively deemed to have been superseded by this Agreement.

20.Ti=ALTERATION OF THIS AGREEMENT

20.sec=This Agreement may be altered only by notice from Lessor, signed agreement or by operation of law.

21.Ti=ATTORNEY’S FEES

21.sec=In the event of any litigation between Lessor and Tenant, the prevailing party shall be entitled to be awarded attorney’s fees and costs.

22.Ti=CIVIL CODE NOTICE

22.sec=Pursuant to Section 290.46 of the Penal Code, information about specified registered sex offenders is made available to the public via an Internet Web site maintained by the Department of Justice at www.meganslaw.ca.gov. Depending on an offender’s criminal history, this information will include either the address at which the offender resides or the community of residence and ZIP code in which he or she resides. 

23.Ti=ALTERATION AND ADDITIONS

23.sec=It is illegal to add a cabana or add on unit to recreational vehicle. No such add-on units, however described or identified are allowed. Any existing conditions to the contrary may not be relied on as permissible practice. Tenant agrees not to make any alterations, improvements, additions or utility installations to, on or about the Space or recreational vehicle, nor install, remove or change any existing improvements, or modify the drainage or landscaping. 

24.Ti=DRUG ENFORCEMENT POLICY

24.sec=LESSOR COOPERATES WITH ALL LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES IN THE IDENTIFICATION AND APPREHENSION OF ALL PERPETRATORS INVOLVED IN THE USE, POSSESSION, MANUFACTURE OR SALE OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES AND OTHER ILLEGAL SUBSTANCES. Lessor will further cooperate to the fullest extent of the law with any efforts to prosecute such persons and in the seizure of any recreational vehicle or other property as an instrumentality of such crimes.

25.Ti=NOTE

25.sec=You represent and warrant that the information you have provide to us regarding you and your household members is true and correct.  Tenant shall promptly notify Lessor, in writing, of any change of this information. 

26.Ti=PATRIOT ACT COVENANT

26.sec=Tenant warrants that each and every “person” or “entity” affiliated with Tenant is: (A) not a “blocked” person listed in the Annex to Executive Order Nos. 12947, 13099 and 13224; (B) in full compliance with applicable Patriot Rules and all other requirements contained in the rules and regulations of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (“OFAC”); (C) not a person who has been determined by competent authority to be subject to the prohibitions contained in the Patriot Rules. At all times throughout the term, no funds of Tenant or any member that are used to the rents and other charges of the tenancy shall be derived from any unlawful activity, with the result that payment is prohibited by law, or, this Agreement is in violation of law and subject to immediate cancellation or termination.

27.Ti=RELEASE OF CORE TENANCY FUNCTIONS

27.sec=Core tenancy functions are those duties of the Lessor which pertain to habitability of the Space, including the covenant of quit enjoyment. Lessor is not liable for and is hereby released from any accident, injury, damage, loss, expense or other liability of any kind, to Tenant and other household members, whether from theft, vandalism, fire, water, rain storms, utility interruptions, smoke, explosions, or other causes whatsoever, except where proximately resulting from Lessor’s negligence or willful misconduct.  This paragraph is intended to be full and complete release of liability to the fullest extent allowed by California Law.

28.Ti=NON-CORE TENANCY FUNCTIONS

28.sec=Non-core tenancy functions are those duties of the Lessor which pertain to the maintenance and operation of common area and recreational services, facilities, amenities, and improvements not part of the duties of habitability of the Space. Included are all recreational facilities and areas, pools, paths, roads, buildings, equipment, appliances and furnishings (“non-essential facilities”).  Lessor is not liable and is hereby released from any accident, injury, damage, loss, expense or other liability, of any kind, to the person or property of Tenant and other household members, caused or occurring in or by “non-essential facilities”, whether resulting from maintenance, operation, defects, disrepair or active, passive or gross negligence of Lessor. This release shall be construed to the fullest extent of the law in accordance with Lewis Operating Corporation v. Superior Court of Riverside County, 200 Cal.App.4th 940, 132 Cal. Rptr.3d 849 (2011).

00.1.Sec=I HAVE READ, UNDERSTAND AND AGREE TO ALL FOREGOING TERMS AND PROVISIONS.

00.2.=[G/US-CA-MHP-CmA/RV-RentalAgt/Sec/TenantSign/0.md]

00.3.Ti=APPROVED BY MANAGEMENT:

00.3.1.sec=Dated:			

00.3.2.sec=By:													

00.3.=[G/Z/paras/s2]

00.4.Sec=EQUAL HOUSING OPPORTUNITY: WE DO BUSINESS IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE STATE AND FEDERAL FAIR HOUSING LAWS. IT IS ILLEGAL TO DISCRIMINATE AGAINST ANY PERSON BECAUSE OF RACE, COLOR, RELIGION, SEX, SEXUAL ORIENTATION, HANDICAP OR DISABILITY, FAMILIAL STATUS, SOURCE OF INCOME, NATIONAL ORIGIN, ANCESTRY OR FOR ARBITRARY REASONS UNDER STATE LAW – DISCRIMINATORY ACTIONS OF THE MANAGEMENT, TENANT(S), RESIDENT(S), GUEST(S) OR OTHERS MAY BE REPORTED TO OWNER’S AGENTS, OR THE DEPARTMENT OF FAIR EMPLOYMENT AND HOUSING. MANAGEMENT WILL NOT AT ANY TIME UNLAWFULLY ADMINISTER, ENFORCE OR EXPRESS ANY PREFERENCE WITH RESPECT TO EXISTING OR PROSPECTIVE TENANTS, RESIDENTS, OR GUESTS BASED ON PROTECTED CLASS STATUS AS DEFINED UNDER SUCH LAWS. NO SUCH UNLAWFUL ACTIVITY BY OTHER PERSONS WHETHER RESIDING IN OR DOING BUSINESS IN THE PARK OR OTHERWISE IS PERMITTED; ANY UNLAWFUL DISCRIMINATION KNOWN OR REASONABLY SUSPECTED MAY BE REPORTED TO APPROPRIATE GOVERNMENT AUTHORITIES FOR PROSECUTION.

00.=[G/Z/paras/4]

=[G/Z/ol/28]