Ti=Billing and Invoice Submission

1.Ti=Invoicing and Late Penalties

1.1.sec=It is outside counsel’s responsibility to submit accurate electronic invoices in {Company.Name.Full} electronic billing system on a monthly basis, to include all required documentation, and to correct invoicing errors for re-submission. All invoices submitted to {Company.Name.Full} must contain required pieces of information and be submitted in the proper format. A separate invoice is required for each matter and for each {Invoice.Frequency.cl}, unless we expressly direct you otherwise.

1.2.sec={Company.Name.Full}’s law department utilizes {Invoice.SoftwarePlatform.Name} software to streamline the process for receiving legal invoices from all outside legal service providers.  

1.3.sec=Outside counsel must submit all invoices for work performed in a month by no later than {Invoice.Submit.Deadline.cl} after the month in which the work is performed (the “{DefT.Due_Date}”). Invoices will generally be paid within {Invoice.Payment.Within.days} from receipt of a properly submitted and accepted invoice. {Company.Name.Full} will discount every invoice by {Invoice.Delay.DiscountPerMonth.%} per month if received after the {_Due_Date} (except in the case where the invoice is for less than {Invoice.Deminimus.Threshhold.$} in which case you may hold the invoice until aggregate billing exceeds {Invoice.Deminimus.Threshhold.$}). 

1.4.sec={Company.Name.Full} has no obligation to pay for any invoices submitted more than four months after the completion date of a matter, or for any late invoices that cross {Company.Name.Full} fiscal year. 

1.5.sec=To ensure that any discounts are reflected in your invoices, we require you to enter your bill using the pre-discounted bill rates and reflect the discount as a top-level adjustment on your invoice and in our e-billing system. 

1.6.sec=Unless required by law, all invoices must be submitted electronically. 

1.=[G/Z/ol/s6]

2.Ti=Line Item Details and Block Billing

2.1.sec=We believe that block billing does not provide adequate detail to assess the work that was done and therefore require that timekeepers not block bill their time. We define block billing as when multiple (and different) tasks are aggregated into a single line item.   Time spent on tasks should be billed for actual time spent. Timekeepers must accurately record time spent on each task. Unless otherwise authorized by us in advance, each entry should reflect a separate task and must state the nature of the work performed and the time spent by each timekeeper.  

2.2.sec=Because this practice limits {Company.Name.Full}’s ability to effectively monitor our legal spending, line items that are block billed will either be reduced by {BlockBilling.Discount.%} automatically or rejected.

BlockBilling.Discount.%=50%

2.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

3.Ti=Fees and Expenses

3.1.Ti=Alternative Fee Arrangements

3.1.1.sec={Company.Name.Full} believes in innovation. It is one of our core values and is a trait we not only expect from ourselves, but from our vendors and partners.  We believe that pushing past traditional methods of billing based on an hourly rate and instead working towards alternative fee arrangements (AFAs) will lead to a longer, more engaged and predictable relationship with outside counsel. AFAs give outside counsel greater flexibility and reduce the administrative burdens for both {Company.Name.Full} and outside counsel. {Company.Name.Full} values AFAs because they focus on efficiency, effectiveness, while still giving outside counsel the ability to demonstrate its expertise and commitment to {Company.Name.Full}’s business. 

#Note=Presumed that XXX means the Company, here.

3.1.2.sec=For every matter, {Company.Name.Full} requires that outside counsel provide a fixed fee or other alternative billing proposal, as the primary method for billing against a matter. So please, be innovative. Some possible AFAs that {Company.Name.Full} desires you to consider, depending on the matter, are flat or capped fees, blended rates, contingency fees, phased fees or success fees.  We look forward to your proposals.

3.1.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

3.2.Ti=Hourly Fee Arrangements

3.2.1.Sec=If it is not possible to put in place an AFA and you are resorting to hourly rates, {Company.Name.Full} expects to be charged the lowest hourly billing rates provided by the law firm to its most valued clients.  Hourly rates are locked for 2 years and {Company.Name.Full} will not approve any increases to the hourly rates unless agreed upon in writing by the Legal Operations team in advance of time being billed.  

3.2.2.Ti=Volume Discount

#Note=Presumed that XXX means the Company, here.

3.2.2.sec={Company.Name.Full} expects outside counsel to provide a volume discount based on {Company.Name.Full} total spend. The discount should be reflected on all bills and entered into {Company.Name.Full}’s e-billing solution in such a matter that {Company.Name.Full} may track the discount.  

3.2.=[G/Z/ol/2]

3.3.Ti=Prohibited Fees and Expenses

3.3.0.sec=If we agreed to an hourly rate arrangement, {Company.Name.Full} will reject costs and expenses pertaining to any of the fees and expenses listed below. {Company.Name.Full} will only pay for actual costs and will never pay for markups.

3.3.1.sec=Administrative, clerical, and secretarial staff work; word processing, proofreading, and any other non-professional services or service providers such as administrators and document clerks 

3.3.2.sec=Time spent “getting up to speed” for a legal professional due to staff turnover or vacation

3.3.3.sec=Time spent preparing invoices, discussing or resolving billing inquiries or disputes, utilizing the electronic invoice system, and budgeting tasks. 

3.3.4.sec=Proofreading

3.3.5.sec=Professional development time

3.3.6.sec=Graphics and desktop publishing

3.3.7.sec=Time spent by attorneys performing paralegal work

3.3.8.sec=Routine administrative tasks incidental to an engagement

3.3.9.sec=Legal research (time spent or other costs); exceptions require prior approval 

3.3.10.sec=Document translation that has not been requested or pre-approved 

3.3.11.sec=File creation, organization, and maintenance (including file storage) 

3.3.12.sec=Time spent or costs associated with preparing, transferring, closing, or destroying files, research, memoranda, pleadings, communications, records, drafts, and other related material, including electronic copies of documents (including to {Company.Name.Full} or new counsel)

3.3.13.sec=Communication charges including phone, video, word processing, and fax.

3.3.14.sec=Postage and courier fees, unless pre-approved

3.3.15.sec=Publications, subscriptions, librarian services, and online databases, such as Lexis and Westlaw, whether cost or time

3.3.16.sec=Document scanning, unless pre-approved

3.3.17.sec=Copying (color or otherwise), whether cost or time

3.3.18.sec=Any items of overhead expenses (e.g. staff overtime, meals, local transportation, conference rooms, calendaring, rental fees, etc.)

3.3.19.sec=Unauthorized third-party fees

3.3.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s19]

3.=[G/Z/ol-i/3]

=[G/Z/ol-AA/3]

4.Ti=Travel Expense Policy

4.1.sec={Company.Name.Full} requires that all outside legal partners strictly adhere to its travel expense policy {link or attachment], which is available upon request.

4.2.0.sec=Please note that the following requirements apply:

4.2.1.Ti=Air Travel

All charges for air travel must be at economy or coach rates.   We will not reimburse you or third-party vendors for business or first-class air travel.  Airline reservations should be made as far in advance as possible to take advantage of early purchase discounts.  Airfare for calendared court appearances, mediations, or other scheduled meetings, should be booked at least 14 days in advance.  Failure to book air travel sufficiently in advance to take advantage of readily available lower fares may result in reduction of the reimbursement.  

4.2.2.Ti=Hotel

We will pay for hotels up to {Expense.Hotel.PerNight.Max.$} per night. Wherever possible, we expect you to use hotels where {Company.Name.Full} has an agreed rate, a list of which is available upon request. 

Expense.Hotel.PerNight.Max.$=$250

Expense.Meal.PerDay.Max.$=$60

Expense.RentalCar.PerDay.Max.$=$50

Expense.Receipt.Threshold.$=$25

4.2.3.Ti=Meals

4.2.3.sec=We will pay for meals up to {Expense.Meal.PerDay.Max.$} per person per day.

4.2.4.Ti=Ground Transportation

4.2.4.sec=We will pay for rental cars up to {Expense.RentalCar.PerDay.Max.$} per day.  We will not pay for ground transportation by limousine unless the charges are equivalent to, or less than, taxi fares.

4.2.5.Ti=Exceptions

4.2.5.sec=In certain cities, exceptions to the reimbursable limits are allowable with prior written consent from Legal Operations.

4.2.6.Ti=Miscellaneous

4.2.6.sec=We will not pay for mini-bar charges, personal telephone calls, movie rentals, dry cleaning, or similar personal items.

4.2.7.Ti=Receipts

4.2.7.sec=Documentation is required for any single expenditure over {Expense.Receipt.Threshold.$}.  Actual receipts (or facsimiles thereof), e.g. the airline ticket stub showing class and fare, as opposed to an expense report or travel agent summary, must be provided.  All travel receipts should be organized and submitted by timekeeper’s name in chronological order.

4.2.8.Ti=Timekeeper Billing During Travel

4.2.8.sec=We will pay only for time spent working on {Company.Name.Full} matters during travel with customary itemization of the actual work performed.  We will not pay for non-working travel time.

4.2.=[G/Z/ol/8]

4.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

=[G/Z/ol-AA/4]
