Ti=Membership.

1.sec={_HLP} shall be composed of Premier, General and Associate Members. All Premier and General Members must be current corporate members of The Linux Foundation (at any level) to participate in {_HLP} as a member. Anyone may propose a contribution to {_HLP}’s technical codebase regardless of membership status. All participants in {_HLP}, including Associate Members, enjoy the privileges and undertake the obligations described in this Hyperledger Project Charter, as from time to time amended by the {_Governing_Board} with the approval of The Linux Foundation (“{Def.LF.sec}”). During the term of their membership, all members will comply with all such policies as the {_LF} Board of Directors and/or the {_HLP} may from time to time adopt with notice to members.

2.sec=The Associate Member category of membership is limited to non-profits, open source projects, and government entities, and requires approval by the {_Governing_Board} of {_HLP} (“{Def.Governing_Board.sec}”), or, if the {_Governing_Board} sets criteria for joining as an Associate Member, the meeting of such criteria. If the Associate Member is a membership organization, Associate Membership in {_HLP} does not confer any benefits or rights to the members of the Associate Member.

3.sec=Premier Members shall be entitled to appoint a representative to the {_Governing_Board}, the Marketing Committee and any other committees established by the {_Governing_Board}.

4.sec=General Members shall be entitled to annually elect one representative to the {_Governing_Board} for every ten (10) General Members, up to a maximum of two
(2) representatives, provided that there shall always be at least one (1) General Member representative, even if there are less than ten (10) General Members. The election process shall be determined by the {_Governing_Board}.

5.0.sec=Premier Members, General Members and Associate Members shall be entitled to:

5.1.sec=i. participate in Project general meetings, initiatives, events and any other activities; and

5.2.sec=ii. identify themselves as members of, or participants in, {_HLP}.

5.=[G/Z/ol-a/s2]

=[G/Z/ol-a/s5]
