Ti=Intellectual Property

1.sec=The <a href='#Def.Company.sec' class='definedterm'>Company</a> owns or possesses or {can acquire} on commercially reasonable terms sufficient legal rights to all <a href='#Def.Company.sec' class='definedterm'>Company</a> Intellectual Property without any known conflict with, or infringement of, the rights of others.

2.sec=To the <a href='#Def.Company.sec' class='definedterm'>Company</a>'s knowledge, no product or service marketed or sold (or proposed to be marketed or sold) by the <a href='#Def.Company.sec' class='definedterm'>Company</a> violates or will violate any license or infringes or will infringe any intellectual property rights of any other party.

3.sec=Other than with respect to commercially available software products under standard end-user object code license agreements, there are no outstanding options, licenses, agreements, claims, encumbrances or shared ownership interests of any kind relating to the <a href='#Def.Company.sec' class='definedterm'>Company</a> Intellectual Property, nor is the <a href='#Def.Company.sec' class='definedterm'>Company</a> bound by or a party to any options, licenses or agreements of any kind with respect to the patents, trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights, trade secrets, licenses, information, proprietary rights and processes of any other Person.

4.sec=The <a href='#Def.Company.sec' class='definedterm'>Company</a> has not received any communications alleging that the <a href='#Def.Company.sec' class='definedterm'>Company</a> has violated, or by conducting its business, would violate any of the patents, trademarks, service marks, tradenames, copyrights, trade secrets, mask works or other proprietary rights or processes of any other Person.
5.sec=The <a href='#Def.Company.sec' class='definedterm'>Company</a> has obtained and possesses valid licenses to use all of the software programs present on the computers and other software-enabled electronic devices that it owns or leases or that it has otherwise provided to its employees for their use in connection with the <a href='#Def.Company.sec' class='definedterm'>Company</a>'s business.

6.sec=To the <a href='#Def.Company.sec' class='definedterm'>Company</a>'s knowledge, it will not be necessary to use any inventions of any of its employees or consultants (or Persons it currently intends to hire) made prior to their employment by the <a href='#Def.Company.sec' class='definedterm'>Company</a>.

7.sec=Each employee and consultant has assigned to the <a href='#Def.Company.sec' class='definedterm'>Company</a> all intellectual property rights he or she owns that are related to the <a href='#Def.Company.sec' class='definedterm'>Company</a>'s business as now conducted and as presently proposed to be conducted.

8.sec=<u>{DS.2.8.Xref}</u> of the Disclosure Schedule lists all <a href='#Def.Company.sec' class='definedterm'>Company</a> Intellectual Property.

9.sec=The <a href='#Def.Company.sec' class='definedterm'>Company</a> has not embedded any open source, copyleft or community source code in any of its products generally available or in development, including but not limited to any libraries or code licensed under any General Public License, Lesser General Public License or similar license arrangement.

10.sec=For purposes of this <u>Subsection </u><u>0</u>, the <a href='#Def.Company.sec' class='definedterm'>Company</a> shall be deemed to have knowledge of a patent right if the <a href='#Def.Company.sec' class='definedterm'>Company</a> has actual knowledge of the patent right or would be found to be on notice of such patent right as determined by reference to United States patent laws.

=[G/Z/ol-a/s10]
