-Glossary		
-Assessor - An Assessor is a third party identified by the ID Federation who is responsible for certifying the service of an applicant based on a neutral and independent assessment and testing as determined by the Policy Authority from time to time.		
-Authenticating Identity Provider - The Identity Provider that originally Authenticates the Individual User and generates the original Token in the process of Delegation.		
-Authenticate or Authentication - The verification that an Individual User is the person purportedly identified by a Token.		
-Authorization - The granting of role-based or other access controls and permissions to conduct transactions in or through an application, service or other system of a Relying Party.		
-Certificate Authority (CA) - A trusted third party organization that validates the identity of an organization before issuing a digital certificate and certifying ownership of that digital certificate to that entity. The digital certificates can be used to create digital signatures and public-private key pairs used to securely communicate and validity the identity of each party involved in an Internet transaction.		
-Certification Trust Mark - The federally registered trademark or servicemark designating Certified Services for an IdP.		
-Certified Services - An Identity Provider service that has been certified in accordance with the Trust Framework Certification Policy.		
-Certified Participant – A Participant that has at least one Certified Service in accordance with the Trust Framework Certification Policy.		
-Credential - The user ID and password, associated with a user account, which is used to confirm the identity of a person or software program in order to gain access to a resource.		
-Delegation - The process of transmitting Identity Attributes between an Identity Provider and Relying Party through a Identity Provider Proxy in the absence of a Trust Relationship between the Identity Provider and the Relying Party.		
-Existing Commercial Contract - A contract by which a Participant is involved in the provision of, sale, distribution licensing, or use of a financial or insurance related product or service with one or more other Participants and that is related to the Trust Framework.		
-Existing Commercial Relationship - The relationship between two or more Participants by which they are involved in the provision of, sale, distribution licensing, or use of a financial or insurance related product or service, e.g., the relationship between an agency and insurance carrier, or between either an agency or insurance carrier and a vendor. The contracts to do business with one another are indicia of an Existing Commercial Relationship. It is not assumed that Vendors have Existing Commercial Relationships with one another.		
-Federation Operator - The Federation Operator is responsible for day to day operations of the ID Federation, including provision of business services such as “first point of contact” telephone and email communications for the ID Federation, on boarding new Participants and maintaining current records, including the Participant Database and Meta-Data repository.		
-Formal Policies and Official Documents - Policies and Official Documents that are formally incorporated by reference into the Trust Framework and are promulgated or approved by the Policy Authority, including the Intellectual Property Rights Policy, the Antitrust Policy, the Accreditation and Certification Policy and other Policies (available on the ID Federation website).		
-ID Federation - The entire federated identity system defined and governed by this Trust Framework, including the aggregate of all parties using or supporting the use of identity assertions in accordance with this Trust Framework in one or more Roles.		
-IDFI - This is the acronym for the ID Federation, Inc.		
-Identity Attributes - Information that uniquely describes an individual (i.e. First Name, Role, etc) (commonly called assertions or claims). While Identity Attributes might be common between individuals, all the attributes used together create a unique identity.		
-Identity Provider (IdP) - An Identity Provider (IdP) is a Participant that issues a Credential and Token to Individual Users and effectuates the passing of those Tokens to Relying Parties for purposes of asserting and Authenticating Individual User identity.		
-Identity Provider Proxy - An Identity Provider acting as a proxy for an originating identity provider by accepting a Token from the Authenticating identity provider and acting as a conduit to a target system hosted by a Relying Party.		
-Individual User (IU) - An Individual User is a single human being provisioned a Federation Token by a User Authority and issued that Token by an Identity Provider.		
-Member - An ID Federation member of any class.		
-Membership Trust Mark - The federally registered trademark or servicemark designating official [registered] Participation in the ID Federation.		
-Metadata - Commonly called data about data contents, Metadata is typically used to describe the structure of data not the actual data value.		
-Onboarding - Being added to the Participant Directory and approved for Participation in the ID Federation as an Identity Provider or Relying Party.		
-Participant - An Identity Provider, Relying Party or User Authority.		
-Participant Directory - An information directory such as a database or content management system that is administered by the Federation Operator containing information about each Identity Provider, Relying Party and User Authority that participates in the ID Federation, including every Certified Service and other relevant operational data related to the ID Federation.		
-Participation Agreement - The contract by which a Party agrees to abide by the Trust Framework, execution of which is a prerequisite to become a Participant in the ID Federation.		
-Party - A legal entity that is an applicant to become a Participant, is a Participant or has been a Participant in the ID Federation.		
-Policy Authority - The Board of Directors is the Policy Authority. The Policy Authority is responsible for promulgating the ID Federation Trust Framework and for the strategic, organic and other material decisions making for activities operating under the Trust Framework, including approval of the requirements for Certified Services and Accreditation.		
-Relying Party - A Relying Party is a Participant that accepts and relies upon a Token of an Individual User that has been issued by an Identity Provider and received for the purpose of asserting and Authenticating the identity of the Individual User.		
-Role - Participation within the ID Federation occurs by parties that conduct one or more Roles, as specified and defined in the Trust Framework, namely an Identity Provider (IdP), a Relying Party (RP), a User Authority (UA) or an Individual User (IU). Additional Roles that support the ID Federation are the Governance Authority, the Federation Operator and the Assessor.		
-Rules - The Rules refer to the current Trust Framework as amended from time to time.		
-Token - A Token is a generic term intended to provide a packaged set of information which allows for Authentication between IdPs and RPs. Typical Tokens include but are not limited to IP/TCP channel data, Server Signatures, Authentication data, and Payload information.		
-Trust Framework - The term Trust Framework refers to the document titled “Identity Federation Rules for the Insurance & Financial Services Industry” and includes without limitation the Formal Policies, Official Documents, or Rules.		
-Trust Mark - The Certification Trust Mark and/or the Membership Trust Mark.		
-Trust Relationship - The business, legal, and technical agreements between two organizations supporting technical integrations where a party acting as an Identity Provider Authenticates Individual Users on behalf of the other party acting as a Relying Party.		
-User Authority (UA) - A User Authority (UA) is a Participant that provisions, maintains and deprovisions Tokens for Individual Users within its business.