Appendix D
Intellectual Property Rights Policy
1. Purpose. The purpose of this Intellectual Property Rights Policy (“Policy”) is to minimize the possibility of inadvertent infringement of the IPR of Members and third parties by using or implementing any ID Federation Specifications.
2. Applicability. All Members, representatives of Members, and third parties attending any technical meeting are subject to this Policy.
3. Intellectual Property Rights.
3.1.Patent Covenant. Each Member agrees and covenants not to enforce or caused to be enforced any patent or patent rights against any Implementer for implementation of (i) any Required Element of Specification Version 1.0 or implementation of any Required Element of Specification Version 1.0 which is carried over to subsequent versions of the Specification. In addition, Members acknowledge that the covenant contained in this Section shall be applicable to subsequent versions of the Specifications and the ID Federation may request applicable written representations or other documentation from Member from time to time, including before and after meetings and at the time of adoption of future Specifications, in order to carry out this Section. Each current Member and any future Members are considered third party beneficiaries to the agreement and covenant of this subsection.
3.2. Copyright. The copyright for Specification 1.0 shall belong to ID Federation. Each Member who contributed copyrighted materials to ID Federation for Specification 1.0 shall retain copyright ownership of its original work, while at the same time granting ID Federation a non-exclusive, irrevocable, worldwide, perpetual, royalty-free license under the copyrights of Member or any Representative to reproduce, distribute, publish, display, perform, and create derivative works based on that original work for the purpose of developing Specification 1.0 under ID Federation's own copyright. In addition, Members acknowledge that the covenant contained in this Section shall be applicable to subsequent versions of the Specifications and the ID Federation may request applicable written representations or other documentation from Member from time to time in order to carry out this Section, including before and after meetings and at the time of adoption of future Specifications, in order to carry out this Specification.
3.3.Trade Secrets. Members acknowledge that they are not disclosing trade secrets under the Trust Framework and other Members and the Id Federation are not under any obligation of confidentiality, unless otherwise agreed, as set forth in the Trust Framework.
4. Process. Member agrees to complete any documentation necessary to effect the representations contained in this Policy. Members may be required before or after technical meetings to complete a statement confirming Member’s acceptance of the terms and conditions of this Policy.
5. Definitions. The definitions set forth below apply to this Policy. Other defined terms used in this Policy are as set forth in the Glossary.
5.1.“Implementers” means any current or future Members or non-members who desire to use or implement Specification 1.0.
5.2. “Required Element” means any element of Specification 1.0 that has not been identified as “optional.” For the avoidance of doubt, if an Implementer may implement one of two or more alternative elements, then all such elements shall be deemed to be “Required Elements.”
5.3.“Specification Version 1.0” means Article 3 “Technical” of the ID Federation Trust Framework.
6. Retained Rights. Except as explicitly set forth in this Policy, each Member reserves any and all rights in its intellectual property.
Survival. This Policy shall survive any termination of a Member’s membership in the ID Federation.
