Ti=MISCELLANEOUS.

Injunction.Ti=Injunction.

Injunction.sec={_Employee} agrees that breach of this {_Agreement} would cause {_Company} irreparable injury, for which monetary damages would not provide adequate compensation, and that in addition to any other remedy, {_Company} will be entitled to injunctive relief against such breach or threatened breach, without proving actual damage or posting a bond or other security.

Injunction.=[G/Z/Base]

Survive.Ti=Survival.

Survive.sec=The rights and obligations of Articles {Conf.Xnum}, {IP.Xnum}, and {ReEmployment.Xnum} above will survive any termination or expiration of this {_Agreement} or of {_Employee}’s employment with {_Company}, as will any provision that must survive to fulfill its essential purpose.

Survive.=[G/Z/Base]

Sever.Ti=Severability.

Sever.sec=To the extent permitted by applicable law, the parties hereby waive any provision of law that would render any clause of this {_Agreement} invalid or otherwise unenforceable in any respect. In the event that a provision of this {_Agreement} is held to be invalid or otherwise unenforceable, such provision will be interpreted to fulfill its intended purpose to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, and the remaining provisions of this {_Agreement} will continue in full force and effect.

Sever.=[G/Z/Base]

Waive.Ti=No Waiver.

Waive.sec=Neither party will be deemed to have waived any of its rights under this {_Agreement} by lapse of time or by any statement or representation other than by an authorized representative in an explicit written waiver. No waiver of a breach of this {_Agreement} will constitute a waiver of any other breach of this {_Agreement}.

Waive.=[G/Z/Base]

LawAndJurisdiction.Ti=Choice of Law & Jurisdiction:

LawAndJurisdiction.sec=This {_Agreement} will be governed solely by the internal laws of {Law.State.the}, including applicable U.S. federal law, without reference to any conflicts of law principle that would apply the substantive laws of another jurisdiction to the parties’ rights or duties. The parties consent to the personal and exclusive jurisdiction of {Tribunal.cl}. This Section {LawAndJurisdiction.Xnum} governs all claims arising out of or related to this {_Agreement}, including without limitation tort claims.

LawAndJurisdiction.=[G/Z/Base]

Entire.Ti=Entire Agreement.

Entire.sec=This {_Agreement} sets forth the entire agreement of the parties regarding its subject matter and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous writings, negotiations, and discussions with respect to such subject matter. Neither party has relied upon any such prior or contemporaneous communications.

Entire.=[G/Z/Base]

Amend.Ti=Amendment.

Amend.sec=This {_Agreement} may not be amended except through a written agreement executed by authorized representatives of each party.

Amend.=[G/Z/Base]

sec=<ol><li>{Injunction.Sec}</li><li>{Survive.Sec}</li><li>{Sever.Sec}</li><li>{Waive.Sec}</li><li>{LawAndJurisdiction.Sec}</li><li>{Entire.Sec}</li><li>{Amend.Sec}</li></ol>

=[G/Z/Base]

LawAndJurisdiction.Xnum={Xnum}.<a class="xref" href="{!!!}LawAndJurisdiction.Sec">5</a>

