Ti=Data Sharing 

Intro.sec=Term Definition 

Accountability.sec={_Accountability} The obligation to explain and justify conduct. 

Anonymisation.sec={_Anonymisation} The irreversible delinking of identifying information from associated data. 

Audit.sec={_Audit} A systematic review to evaluate adherence to applicable laws and policies. 

Big_Data.sec={_Big_Data}: Large and complex datasets typically combining multiple sources of information and analyzed through novel computational methods. 

Biobank.sec={_Biobank}: An organized collection of human biological material and associated data which is stored, processed and searchable. 

Clinical_Trial.sec={_Clinical_Trial}: A study involving human participants to investigate the efficacy and/or safety of one or more medicines or other health-related interventions. 

Cloud_Computing.sec={_Cloud_Computing}: Shared computing resources accessible over the internet that can include capabilities for processing and storing data. 

Coding.sec={_Coding}/{_Pseudonymisation}: The act of replacing an identifier with a code for the purpose of avoiding direct identification of the participant, except by persons holding the key linking the code and identifier. 

Cohort.sec={_Cohort}: A group of individuals identified by common characteristic(s) (e.g., demographic, exposure, illness) or studied over time using a common protocol. 

Confidentiality.sec={_Confidentiality}: The ethical and legal obligation of an individual or organization to safeguard data or information by controlling access as authorized by law or by the data donor. 

Conflict_of_Interest.sec={_Conflict_of_Interest}: One or more connections or interests (personal, social, financial or professional) that influence, or could be perceived to influence, professional integrity and independence. 

Consent.sec={_Consent}: Voluntary and informed expression of the will of a person, or if incompetent, his/her legal representative. 

Note=Expanded Controlled/Restricted Access to both terms.

Controlled_Access.sec={_Controlled_Access}/{_Restricted_Access}: Access to data that is subject to conditions and an approval process. 

Restricted_Access.sec={_Controlled_Access}/{_Restricted_Access}: Access to data that is subject to conditions and an approval process.

Data.sec={_Data}: Observations, narratives or measurements that are assumed as the basis for further analysis, calculation or reasoning. 

Data_Access.sec={_Data_Access}: Committee A committee that reviews and authorizes applications for data access and use. 

Data_Breach.sec={_Data_Breach}: The unauthorized collection, access, use, disclosure or release of data. 

Data_Curation.sec={_Data_Curation}: The process of selecting, annotating, maintaining, archiving and tracking data. 

Data_Donor.sec={_Data_Donor}: The individual whose data have been collected, held, used and shared. 

Data_Embargo.sec={_Data_Embargo}: Defined period of time when data are unavailable for wider access. 

Data_Linkage.sec={_Data_Linkage}: The process by which records representing the same entity or individual are linked across multiple data sources. 

Data_Protection.sec={_Data_Protection}s: The set of laws, policies and procedures that aim to minimize intrusion into people’s privacy, uphold confidentiality, and penalize undue intrusions and/or breaches. 

Data_Security.sec={_Data_Security}: The protection of the confidentiality, availability and integrity of data. 

Data_Sharing.sec={_Data_Sharing}: Extending access to data for the purpose of research or analyses. 

Data_Steward.sec={_Data_Steward}: An entity responsible for assuring the quality, integrity, and access arrangements of data and metadata in a manner that is consistent with applicable law, institutional policy, and individual permissions. 

Note=Expanded Data (or Material) Transfer Agreement to both terms.

Data_Transfer_Agreement.sec={_Data_Transfer_Agreement}/{_Material_Transfer_Agreement}:  A binding legal agreement between the provider and the recipient of data (or materials) that sets forth conditions of transfer, use and disclosure. 

Material_Transfer_Agreement.sec={_Data_Transfer_Agreement}/{_Material_Transfer_Agreement}:  A binding legal agreement between the provider and the recipient of data (or materials) that sets forth conditions of transfer, use and disclosure. 

Database.sec={_Database}: Data and information that are managed and stored in a systematic way to enable data analyses. 

Dataset_A.sec={_Dataset}: A collection of data which may be a subset in a database. 

De-identification.sec={_De-identification}: The removal or alteration of any data that identifies an individual or could, foreseeably, identify an individual in the future. 

Destroy.sec={_Destroy}: To take all necessary steps to ensure that data are no longer stored or able to be used. 

Disclosure.sec={_Disclosure}: The revelation of confidential information about an individual. 

Disclosure_Risk.sec={_Disclosure_Risk}: The probability of confidential information being revealed about an individual. 

Encryption.sec={_Encryption}: A mechanism of safeguarding stored data or information by making those data or information unreadable without access to the correct decryption method. 

Ethical_Guideline.sec={_Ethical_Guidelines}: A framework to guide decision-making based on accepted ethical principles and practice. Ethics review committee/ 

IRB.sec={_IRB}/ {_REC}/{_REB}: An independent committee for the ethical review of research activities. 

Governance.sec={_Governance}: The process of policy making and management that guides and oversees research in a consistent and structured manner. 

Harmonization.sec={_Harmonization}: The process of unifying certain policies, methodologies and approaches in order to achieve interoperability. 

Note=Expanded Identifiable/ Personal Data

Identifiable_Data.sec={_Identifiable_Data}/{_Personal_Data}: Data that alone or in combination with other data may reasonably be expected to identify an individual. 

Personal_Data.sec={_Identifiable_Data}/{_Personal_Data}: Data that alone or in combination with other data may reasonably be expected to identify an individual. 

Note=Compressed "Identity and Access Management" into IAM, as in other documents

IAM.sec={_Identity_and_Access_Management}/{_IAM}:  A set of processes and supporting technologies that enable the creation, maintenance, use, and revocation of digital identity. 

Incidental_Finding.sec={_Incidental_Finding}s: A finding discovered in the course of clinical care or research concerning an individual that is beyond the aims of the clinical care or research. 

Individual_Research_Result.sec={_Individual_Research_Result}s: A finding discovered in the course of research concerning an individual that relates to the aims of the research.

Information.sec={_Information}: Data that have already been interpreted, i.e. they have meaning in a specific context. Legacy Data or Biospecimens  Data (or biospecimens) previously collected for research or for clinical care, where new proposed uses may not be covered. 

Note=Expanded Medical/Health Record

Medical_Record.sec={_Medical_Record}/{_Health_Record}: A paper or electronic record created in the health care system which contains medical and health-related information about an individual and is used to record and support health care for that individual. 

Health_Record.sec={_Medical_Record}/{_Health_Record}: A paper or electronic record created in the health care system which contains medical and health-related information about an individual and is used to record and support health care for that individual. 

Metadata.sec={_Metadata}: Data that describe other data. 

Open_Data_Access.sec={_Open_Data_Access}: Making data available without restriction. 

Opt-in.sec={_Opt-in}: A consent mechanism where an active choice is made to participate. 

Opt-out.sec={_Opt-out}: A consent mechanism where consent is implied unless an active choice is made not to participate. 

Personal_Data.sec={_Personal_Data}/ {_Identifiable_Data}: Data that alone or in combination with other data may reasonably be expected to identify an individual. 

Privacy.sec={_Privacy}: The right and freedom to control access to information about oneself. 

Pseudonymisation.sec={_Pseudonymisation}/{_Coding}: The act of replacing an identifier with a code for the purpose of avoiding direct identification of the participant, except by persons holding the key linking the code and identifier. 

Public_Domain.sec={_Public_Domain}: The body of knowledge and innovation in relation to which no person or other legal entity can establish or maintain proprietary interests. 

Public_Engagement.sec={_Public_Engagement}: An inclusive act ranging from the active involvement of a population or sub-population in the development, management or governance of a project, to the provision of information and raising awareness of a project. 

Quality.sec={_Quality_Conformity}: of data, biospecimens or processes with pre-established specifications appropriate to the purpose to which the data, biospecimens or processes will be put. 

Registered_Access.sec={_Registered_Access}: A system of authentication and self-declaration prior to providing access to data. 

Re-Identification.sec={_Re-Identification}: The act of associating specific data or information within a dataset with an individual. 

Return_of_Result.sec={_Return_of_Result}s: Communication of research results to an individual or a designated health care provider or family member. 

Risk.sec={_Risk}: The probability that an event, favorable or adverse, will occur within a defined time interval. 

Safe_Haven.sec={_Safe_Haven}: A repository in which data are stored and accessed in ways that maintain their integrity and quality whilst meeting relevant ethical and legal controls on their use and dissemination. 

Secondary_uses.sec={_Secondary}: uses Using data or biospecimens in a way that differs from the original purpose for which they were generated or collected. 

Supervisory_Authority.sec={_Supervisory_Authority}: The public authority (or authorities) in a given jurisdiction responsible for monitoring the application of law and administrative measures adopted pursuant to data privacy, data protection and data security. 

Surveillance.sec={_Surveillance}: The systematic collection, monitoring and dissemination of health data to assist in planning, implementation and evaluation of an action or intervention such as research or public health. 

Traceability.sec={_Traceability}:  The ability to verify the history, location, or application of an item, by means of documented recorded identification. For a biospecimen this pertains to any step of its handling, including donation, collection, processing, testing, storage, and disposition. 

Trusted_Third_Party.sec={_Trusted_Third_Party}: An individual or organization that safeguards access to information linking individuals to their data and biospecimens. 

Vulnerable_Person.sec={_Vulnerable_Person}s / {_Vulnerable_Population}s:  Individuals or groups requiring special considerations and/or under the protection of governments, institutions or legal representatives including but not limited to children, the elderly, and those with mental health issues. 

Vulnerable_Population.sec={_Vulnerable_Person}s / {_Vulnerable_Population}s:  Individuals or groups requiring special considerations and/or under the protection of governments, institutions or legal representatives including but not limited to children, the elderly, and those with mental health issues. 

sec={Intro.sec}<ul type=none><li>{Accountability.sec}</li><li>{Anonymisation.sec}</li><li>{Audit.sec}</li><li>{Big_Data.sec}</li><li>{Biobank.sec}</li><li>{Clinical_Trial.sec}</li><li>{Cloud_Computing.sec}</li><li>{Coding.sec}</li><li>{Cohort.sec}</li><li>{Confidentiality.sec}</li><li>{Conflict_of_Interest.sec}</li><li>{Consent.sec}</li><li>{Controlled_Access.sec}</li><li>{Data.sec}</li><li>{Data_Access.sec}</li><li>{Data_Breach.sec}</li><li>{Data_Curation.sec}</li><li>{Data_Donor.sec}</li><li>{Data_Embargo.sec}</li><li>{Data_Linkage.sec}</li><li>{Data_Protection.sec}</li><li>{Data_Security.sec}</li><li>{Data_Sharing.sec}</li><li>{Data_Steward.sec}</li><li>{Data_Transfer_Agreement.sec}</li><li>{Database.sec}</li><li>{Dataset_A.sec}</li><li>{De-identification.sec}</li><li>{Destroy.sec}</li><li>{Disclosure.sec}</li><li>{Disclosure_Risk.sec}</li><li>{Encryption.sec}</li><li>{Ethical_Guideline.sec}</li><li>{IRB.sec}</li><li>{Governance.sec}</li><li>{Harmonization.sec}</li><li>{Identifiable_Data.sec}</li><li>{IAM.sec}</li><li>{Incidental_Finding.sec}</li><li>{Individual_Research_Result.sec}</li><li>{Information.sec}</li><li>{Medical_Record.sec}</li><li>{Metadata.sec}</li><li>{Open_Data_Access.sec}</li><li>{Opt-in.sec}</li><li>{Opt-out.sec}</li><li>{Personal_Data.sec}</li><li>{Privacy.sec}</li><li>{Pseudonymisation.sec}</li><li>{Public_Domain.sec}</li><li>{Public_Engagement.sec}</li><li>{Quality.sec}</li><li>{Registered_Access.sec}</li><li>{Re-Identification.sec}</li><li>{Return_of_Result.sec}</li><li>{Risk.sec}</li><li>{Safe_Haven.sec}</li><li>{Secondary_uses.sec}</li><li>{Supervisory_Authority.sec}</li><li>{Surveillance.sec}</li><li>{Traceability.sec}</li><li>{Trusted_Third_Party.sec}</li><li>{Vulnerable_Person.sec}</li></ul>

=[G/Z/Base]