Ti=Submetered / Separate Charged Utilities

1.0.sec=The utilities identified in paragraph 3 will be separately charged or included in rent as set forth:

1.1.0.sec=Separately Billed Utilities and Other Charges:

1.1.1.sec=<b>{Space.Utilities.Separate.List}</b>

/Space.Utilities.Separate.List=!!ToDo	Electricity 	     Natural Gas 	Propane 	Water  $	Trash $	Sewer $	CATV  	Taxes/		Day      	Month $ OTHER(Describe):		

1.1.=[G/Z/ol-none/s1]

1.2.0.sec=Utilities Included in the Rent:

1.2.1.sec=<b>{Space.Utilities.Included.List}</b>

/Space.Utilities.Included.List=Electricity 	     Natural Gas 	Propane 	Water  $	Trash $	Sewer $	CATV  	Taxes/		Day      	Month $	OTHER(Describe):		

1.2.=[G/Z/ol-none/s1]

1.=[G/Z/ol-none/s2]

2.sec=Lessor reserves the right to submeter and charge separately for any utility or other charge included in rent. Billed submetered/separately charged utilities reflect charges for usage based on a closing meter reading taken at the space.

3.sec=Lessor is not liable for any interruptions, failures or intermittent disruption of utility services.  Accordingly, Tenant is not to be entitled to abatement or reduction of rent by reason of failure of utility service when failure is caused by accident, breakage, repairs, strikes, or other labor disputes or by nay other cause, similar or dissimilar, beyond the reasonable control of Lessor. Lessor is also not responsible for any variances or problems in the quality of utilities from servicing utility providers (such as condition, taste, color or smell of water; interruption of gas or electrical service; or problems with gas, electrical, water or sewer systems on Tenant’s side of the meter or hookup).

4.sec=Tenant shall not connect, except through existing electrical or natural gas outlets or water pipes on the Space, any apparatus or device for the purposes of using electric current natural gas or water.  Tenant is responsible for determining that its appliances and equipment used on or at the Space is compatible with the electric service of the Park, and Tenant agrees and acknowledges that Park has no liability or responsibly to Tenant if the available utilities are insufficient or not compatible. 

5.sec=With respect to a sudden or unforeseeable breakdown or deterioration in the facilities, equipment and other improvements, Lessor shall have responsible period of time to repair them and bring them into good working order and condition after owner knows or should have known of the breakdown or deterioration. A reasonable period of time to repair a sudden or unforeseeable breakdown or deterioration shall be as soon as possible in situations affecting a health and safety condition and shall not exceed 30 days in any other case except where exigent circumstances justify a delay. The rules and regulations, this Agreement, the other residency documents, and facilities, services, physical improvements, amenities, and quality or level of maintenance, may be changed at the Owner’s option from time to time during the term of the Agreement without reducing, discounting or off-setting the rent or changing other term of the provision of this agreement. 

6.sec=PLEASE NOTE: Tenant must use SURGE PROTECTORS FOR THE PROTECTION OF PROPERTY, particularly for computer equipment, stereo equipment, radios, and other appliances affected by disruptions, surges, or other irregularities in electrical service.

=[G/Z/ol-AA/s6]
