Ti=Contract Administration

1.Ti=Type of Contract

1.sec=This is a Firm Fixed Price order using the Agile BPA terms and conditions.
2.Ti=Period of Performance (POP)

2.sec=The period performance for this task order is delivery of the final product 60 calendar days after the Post Award Conference. The Period of Performance begins on the date of the Post Award Conference and ends 60 calendar days after the Post Award Conference.

3.Ti=Place and Hours of Performance

3.1.sec=The primary place of performance will be at the contractor’s facility. Work may be performed at GSA Headquarters at 1800 F St. NW, Washington, DC, and Alternate Sites. {_18F} is a distributed team.

3.2.sec=Business core hours shall be 0900 to 1800 local time, Monday – Friday on Government scheduled work days. The contractor may set its own work hours except that the contractor shall be available for technical contact by the Government between the hours of 0900 and 1800 local time on Government work days.

3.=[Z/ol/s2]

4.Ti=Special Terms and Conditions

4.1.Ti=Section 508 Compliance Requirement

4.1.1.sec=The contractor shall support the Government in its conformance with Section 508 throughout the development and implementation of the work to be performed.

4.1.2.sec=Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 794d) requires that when Federal agencies develop, procure, maintain, or use electronic information technology, Federal employees with disabilities have access to and use of information and data that is comparable to the access and use by Federal employees who do not have disabilities, unless an undue burden would be imposed on the agency. Section 508 also requires that individuals with disabilities, who are members of the public seeking information or services from a Federal agency, have access to and use of information and data that is comparable to that provided to the public who are not individuals with disabilities, unless an undue burden would be imposed on the agency.

4.1.3.0.sec=The following standard is applicable for compliance:

4.1.3.1.sec=1194.22 Web-based Intranet and Internet Information and Applications.
4.1.3.=[Z/ol-none/s1]

4.1.4.sec=The contractor should review the following websites for additional 508 information: - http://www.section508.gov/index.cfm?FuseAction=Content&ID=12 - http://www.access-board.gov/508.htm - http://www.w3.org/WAI/Resources

4.1.=[Z/ol/s4]

4.=[Z/ol/1]

5.Ti=Post Award Orientation Conference

5.1.sec=The Government's team, Contracting Officer, and {_COR} shall hold a Kick-Off Meeting/Post-Award Conference. Ideally, this will physically located in Washington, DC, but may be done virtually with Contractor’s team and other relevant Government staff to review and clarify the project’s objectives, expectations from the Government, and address any questions the Contractor may have. Discussion topics shall include, but not be limited to: - Introduction of the Contractor and Government Staff; - Understanding of the workflow; - Project management expectations; - Agreement on communication methods; and - Discussion of any other relevant specific concerns.

5.2.sec=The Kick-Off Meeting/Post-Award Conference will take place within 10 calendar days from award.

5.=[Z/ol-none/s2]

Note=Was misnumbered in the original

6.Ti=Non-Personal Services

6.1.sec=This award is not being used to procure personal services prohibited by FAR 37.104, Personal services contract.

6.2.0.sec=To ensure no personal services are performed, the Contractor shall adhere to the following guidelines in the performance of any task:

6.2.1.sec=Provide for direct supervision of all contract employees assigned to the task. To this end, the Contractor shall assign a task leader to the award. The task leader or alternate should be the only one who accepts tasking from the assigned Government point of contact or alternative.

6.2.2.sec=Do not assign contractor personnel to work under direct government supervision.

6.2.3.sec=Refrain from discussing the issues such as skill levels and hours, salaries, cost and funding data, or administrative and personnel matters affecting contractor employees.

6.2.4.sec=Ensure close communication/coordination only with the appropriate Government Points of Contact, reporting any time-sensitive issues or problems as they occur (not waiting for a monthly meeting).

6.2.5.sec=Do not permit government officials to interview potential contractor employees, discuss individual performance, approve leave or work scheduling of contractor employees, terminate contractor employees, assist contractor employees in doing their jobs or obtain assistance from the contractor in doing Government job.

6.2.6.sec=When travel is required for the performance on a task, the Contractor personnel are only to travel as directed by their contract management.

6.2.=[Z/ol-none/s6]

6.=[Z/ol-none/s2]

7.Ti=Privacy Act

7.sec=Performance of this task order may require that personnel have access to Privacy Information. Contractor personnel shall adhere to the Privacy Act, Title 5 of the U.S. Code, Section 552a and any other applicable applicable rules and regulations.

8.Ti=Government Furnished Items

8.sec=The Government will furnish the data and scripts needed at time of award. No other hardware or software will be provided by the Government.

9.Ti={_18F}'s Transparency Policy

9.1.sec=Vendors are advised that {_18F} will publish on a publicly available website documents associated with this requirement, including any Requests for Quotation (including amendments), Question and Answer exchanges with vendors (source-identifying information removed), and other relevant information that is not confidential/proprietary in nature or source selection sensitive information that would otherwise implicate procurement integrity concerns.

9.2.sec=Upon award, {_18F} will publish the total price of the selected proposal and certain non-source-identifying data (e.g., the number of bids, the mean price, median, and standard deviation of price). During the performance of this task order, {_18F} will similarly publish source code, data related to project management (e.g., user stories, milestones, and performance metrics), and top-line spending data.
9.=[Z/ol/s2]

10.Ti=Data Rights and Ownership of Deliverables

10.1.sec={_18F} intends that any data or deliverable created as a result of the work performed under the task order be committed to the public domain.

10.2.sec=Further, {_18F} intends to commit the following items, to the public domain, at a minimum: - All data, documents, graphics and code created under this task order including but not limited to, plans, reports, schedules, schemas, metadata, architecture designs, and the like; - Any and all new open source software created by the contractor and forks or branches of current open source software where the contractor has made a modification; and, - Any and all new tooling, scripting configuration management, infrastructure as code, or any other final changes or edits to successfully deploy or operate the software.

10.3.sec=The Contractor shall use open source technologies wherever possible, in support of the {_18F} Source Code Policy. All licenses must be expressly listed in the deliverable. Regardless of license(s) used (e.g., MIT, GPL, Creative Commons 0) the license(s) shall be clearly listed in the documentation.

10.4.sec=If the contractor needs to use work that does not have an open source license, the contractor is required to request permission from {_18F}, in writing, before utilizing that work in any way in connection with the order. If approved, all licenses shall be clearly set forth in a conspicuous place when work is delivered to {_18F}.

10.5.sec=If an open source license provides implementation guidance, the contractor shall ensure compliance with that guidance. If implementation guidance is not available, the contractor shall attach or include the license within the work itself. Examples of this include code comments at the beginning of a file or contained in a license file within a software repository.

10.=[Z/paras/s5]

11.Ti=GSA AAS Business Systems ({_AASBS}) Web Portal

11.sec=The GSA {_AASBS} (Assisted Acquisition Services Business Systems also known as IT Solutions Shop ({_ITSS})) web portal will be accessible to the Contractor during the performance of the task order and be used in the administration of the task order. This web-based system at https://portal.fas.gsa.gov/web/guest shall be used by the contractor to upload status reports, deliverables, invoices, and to respond to inquiries. The contractor shall maintain a current account on this system.

12.Ti=Administration Points of Contact

12.0.sec=The following Points of Contact ({_POC}) are applicable to this order:

12.1.sec=Contracting Officer: Name, Phone, Email

12.2.sec=Contracting Officer Representative ({_COR}): Name, Phone, Email

12.3.sec=Alternative Contracting Officer Representative ({_ACOR}): Name, Phone, Email

12.4.sec=Product Manager: Name, Phone, Email

12.5.sec=Product Owner: [To Be Determined]

12.6.sec=Project Manager: Name, Phone, Email

12.=[Z/ol-none/s6]

=[Z/ol/12]
