Ti={Company.Name.Full} Contract Forms Policy

1.Ti=Introduction

1.1.sec=We as a company want to do business with you honestly, with a focus on our business and relationship.  We also want to avoid legal difficulties that distract from our relationship.  The legal part must be thorough, clear, and current.  To speed the legal side, we list documents that we are usually comfortable with.  We know them, our lawyers know them, we can act quickly on them.  Some of these are IACCM model documents, sometimes with sets of modifications that we prefer.  The IACCM model documents can further accelerate agreement and show our commitment to clarity, balance and a business relationship based on honesty.

1.2.sec=To make it easy on both of us, where possible please use one of our preferred forms and make your proposals to us as lists of deal points and any necessary patches.  You will see many examples among the materials.

1.3.sec=If none of these documents appears to be good starting point, please contact us and explain the situation.  We may be able to point you to a good starting point.  If we agree that there is a reason to create a new form, we may be willing to work with you to create the new form.  In any event, we will ask that the new form complies with the style guide and reuses existing materials to the extent possible.  This helps us react quickly and easily reuse the materials in the future.  It also allows our contract management systems to work more efficiently.  If it is worth creating a new document, it is certainly worth making it in a format that adds to the library.  This may be unfamiliar the first time around, but you will quickly master the techniques.  It will make our lives easier and let us focus on what is important - one another.

1.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

2.=[G/IACCM-ModelContractPolicy-CmA/PreferredDocuments/0.md]

3.Ti=Preferred Section Library

3.sec=See <a href="index.php?action=list&file=G/IACCM-Cooperate-CmA/Sec/">G/IACCM-Cooperate-CmA/Sec/</a> 

4.Ti=Style Guide

4.sec=See <a href="index.php?action=xEdit&file=G/IACCM-ModelContractPolicy-CmA/StyleGuide/0.md">Style Guide</a>  

00.sec=Thank you.  Please feel absolutely free to ask for help on any of these matters.  Contact us regarding matters relating to us specifically.  Please also feel free to contact the IACCM {IACCMcontact.cl}.

=[G/Z/ol/4]