Ti=Warranties and Post Warranty Support

1.sec={P1.Handle} warrants that {_Programs} used in their specified operating environment conform to their official published specifications. The warranty period for a {_Program} (not the {_Program} component of an {_Appliance}) is one year, or the initial license term if less than one year, unless another warranty period is specified in an {_Attachment_or_TD}. During the {_Program} warranty period, {P1.Handle} provides Software Subscription and Support (S&S), entitling {P2.Handle} to defect correction information, restrictions, bypasses, and new releases and versions {P1.Handle} makes generally available. Unless {P2.Handle} elects to discontinue S&S, annual S&S automatically renews at then-current charges until S&S for a version or release is withdrawn. If {P2.Handle} elects to continue S&S for a {_Program} at a designated {P2.Handle} site, {P2.Handle} must maintain S&S for all uses and installations of the {_Program} at that site.

2.sec={P1.Handle} warrants that it provides {_Cloud} and other Services using commercially reasonable care and skill in accordance with the applicable {_Attachment_or_TD}, including any completion criteria, and that {_Project_Materials} will comply with the {_Attachment_or_TD} at the time of delivery. The warranty for a Service ends when the Service ends.

3.sec={P1.Handle} warrants that {_Machines} used in their specified operating environment conform to their official published specifications. For a {_Machine} or {_Appliance}, the warranty period is specified in the {_Attachment_or_TD}. During its warranty period, {P1.Handle} will repair or exchange the {_Machine} without charge, as specified in the Attachment. Warranty does not apply to {_Machines} that {P2.Handle} did not allow {P1.Handle} to install as required by the {_TD}. {P2.Handle} may purchase warranty service upgrades and post warranty support where available. For {_Appliances}, post warranty support includes maintenance and S&S.

4.sec=If a Machine or {_Program} does not function as warranted during its warranty period and {P1.Handle} is unable to repair or replace it with a functional equivalent, {P2.Handle} may return it to {P1.Handle} for a refund of the amount {P2.Handle} paid (for recurring charges, up to twelve months’ charges) and {P2.Handle}’s license or right to use it terminates.

5.sec={P1.Handle} does not warrant uninterrupted or error-free operation of an {_P1.Product} or that {P1.Handle} will correct all defects or prevent {_third_party} disruptions or unauthorized {_third_party} access to an {_P1.Product}. These warranties are the exclusive warranties from {P1.Handle} and replace all other warranties, including the implied warranties or conditions of satisfactory quality, merchantability, non-infringement, and fitness for a particular purpose. {P1.Handle} warranties will not apply if there has been misuse, modification, damage not caused by {P1.Handle}, failure to comply with instructions provided by {P1.Handle}, or if otherwise stated in an Attachment or {_TD}. Non{_P1.Products} are sold under {_the_Agreement} as-is, without warranties of any kind. {_Third_parties} may provide their own warranties to {P2.Handle}.

=[G/Z/ol/s5]
