Published under Creative Commons License: CC BY 4.0 - From ContractForTheWeb.org

Principle.Head=Principle 1

Ti=Ensure everyone can connect to the internet

0.sec=So that anyone, no matter who they are or where they live, can participate actively online

1.Ti=By setting and tracking ambitious policy goals

1.1.sec=1GB of mobile data costs no more than 2% of average monthly income by 2025.

1.2.sec=Access to broadband internet is available for at least 90% of citizens by 2030, and the gap towards that target is halved by 2025.

1.3.sec=At least 70% of youth over 10 years old and adults have Information and Communication Technology (ICT) skills by 2025.

1.=[G/Z/ol-a/s3]

2.Ti=By designing robust policy-frameworks and transparent enforcement institutions to achieve such goals, through

2.1.sec=Fiscal and investment policies that stimulate investment in-and adoption of- connectivity solutions.

2.2.sec=Passive infrastructure sharing (towers, ducts on roads/rail/power lines), dig-once regulations and non-discriminatory and efficient management of radio spectrum to facilitate access to-and sharing of-spectrum for broadband connectivity.

2.3.sec=Open access rules on wholesale infrastructure in non-competitive areas, and access to license-exempt spectrum.

2.4.sec=Institutions with capacity to ensure compliance with laws and regulations designed to foster Internet adoption.

2.=[G/Z/ol-a/s4]


3.Ti=By ensuring systematically excluded populations have effective paths towards meaningful internet access

3.1.sec=Implementing national broadband policies with specific actions designed to target systematically excluded populations.

3.2.sec=Developing policies and providing funds for broadband strategies, including universal access and services definition, with effective technology neutral financing mechanisms for network development in unserved and underserved areas.

3.3.sec=Supporting the local production of content and applications, and the development of the necessary infrastructure and enabling environment for accelerating the growth of local digital businesses.

3.4.sec=Designing policies to increase internet access and digital literacy of women and other systematically excluded groups.

3.=[G/Z/ol-a/s4]

Context.Link=<a href="https://contractfortheweb.org/principles/principles/principle-1-more-info/#section-1">Context</a>

HumanRightsFrameworks.Link=<a href="https://contractfortheweb.org/principles/principles/principle-1-more-info/#section-2">Human Rights Frameworks</a>

OtherExistingFrameworks.Link=<a href="https://contractfortheweb.org/principles/principles/principle-1-more-info/#section-3">Other Existing Frameworks</a>

Glossary.Link=<a href="https://contractfortheweb.org/principles/principles/principle-1-more-info/#section-4">Glossary</a>

=[G/ContractForTheWeb/Principle/Z/0.md]

=[G/Z/ol/3]