Note=https://TechContracts.com/

SeeNotes.=[G/TechContracts/Assignment-NDA/Sec/PublisherNotes/0.md]

------------------------------------ 
Doc.Ti=EMPLOYEE CONFIDENTIALITY AND ASSIGNMENT AGREEMENT

This.sec=This Employee Confidentiality and Assignment Agreement (this “{DefT.Agreement}”) is entered into as of {EffectiveDate.YMD} (the “{DefT.Effective_Date}”) by and between {Company.US.N,E,A} (“{DefT.Company}”) and {Employee.US.N,E,A}, an individual (“{DefT.Employee}”). This {_Agreement} includes Attachments A and B attached hereto.

Why.Ti=RECITALS

Why.sec={_Employee} is or will soon become an employee of {_Company}. In the course of employment, {_Employee} may develop technologies or other assets related to {_Company}’s business and may receive {_Company}’s confidential information. The parties have agreed that such technology and assets will belong to {_Company} and that {_Employee} will maintain the confidentiality of such information. Therefore, in consideration of {_Employee}’s employment with the {_Company}, in consideration of {_Employee}’s compensation now and hereafter paid by {_Company}, and in consideration of the mutual covenants, terms, and conditions set forth below, the adequacy of which consideration is hereby accepted and acknowledged by both parties, the parties agree as follows.

Sec=<center><b>TERMS AND CONDITIONS</b></center>{sec}

1.Ti=EMPLOYMENT

1.sec=The parties recognize and agree that this {_Agreement} governs only its subject-matter and not all terms and conditions of {_Employee}’s employment with {_Company}. {_Employee} recognizes and agrees that, unless another written contract between {_Employee} and {_Company} provides to the contrary: (1) his/her employment with {_Company} is for an unspecified duration and constitutes “at-will” employment; and (2) his/her employment may be terminated at any time, with or without good cause or for any or no cause, at the option either of the {_Company} or him/herself, with or without notice, except as prohibited by law.

1.=[G/Z/Base]

2.Ti=CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION. 

2.1.Ti=Confidential Information Defined

2.1.1.0.sec=“{DefT.Confidential_Information}” refers to the following:

2.1.1.1.sec=any {_Company} proprietary information, technical data, trade secret, or know-how, including without limitation research, product plans, future products or services, customer lists, software, inventions, processes, formulas, other technology, designs, drawings, and hardware configuration information;

2.1.1.2.sec=any {_Company} document marked “confidential” or otherwise marked as sensitive; and (c) {InfoConfidentialByType.cl}.

2.1.1.=[G/Z/ol-a/s2]

2.1.2.sec={_Confidential_Information} may include information from third parties for which {_Company} is under an obligation of confidentiality, including without limitation consumer personally identifiable information.

2.1.3.0.sec=Notwithstanding the foregoing, {_Confidential_Information} does not include information that: 

2.1.3.1.sec=is in {_Employee}’s possession at the time of disclosure;

2.1.3.2.sec=is independently developed by {_Employee} without use of or reference to {_Confidential_Information};

2.1.3.3.sec=becomes known publicly, before or after disclosure, other than as a result of {_Employee}’s improper action or inaction; or 

2.1.3.4.sec=is approved for release in writing by {_Company}.

2.1.3.=[G/Z/ol-i/s4]

2.1.=[G/Z/para/s3]

2.2.Ti=Nondisclosure

2.2.sec={_Employee} shall not use {_Confidential_Information} for any purpose other than to facilitate his/her duties as assigned by {_Company}. {_Employee} shall not disclose {_Confidential_Information} to any other third party without {_Company}’s prior written consent and shall exercise reasonable care to prevent unauthorized disclosure of {_Confidential_Information}. {_Employee} shall promptly notify {_Company} management of any misuse or misappropriation of {_Confidential_Information} that comes to {_Employee}’s attention. Notwithstanding the foregoing, {_Employee} may disclose {_Confidential_Information} as required by applicable law or by proper legal or governmental authority. {_Employee} shall give {_Company} management prompt notice of any such legal or governmental demand and reasonably cooperate with {_Company} in any effort to seek a protective order or otherwise to contest such required disclosure, at {_Company}’s expense.

2.3.Ti=Retention of Rights

2.3.sec=This {_Agreement} does not transfer ownership of {_Confidential_Information} or grant a license thereto. {_Company} will retain all right, title, and interest in and to all {_Confidential_Information}.

2.4.Ti=Exception & Immunity

2.4.0.sec=Pursuant to the Defend Trade Secrets Act of 2016, 18 USC Section 1833(b), {_Employee} is on notice and acknowledges that, notwithstanding the foregoing or any other provision of this {_Agreement}:

2.4.1.Ti=IMMUNITY

2.4.1.0.sec=An individual shall not be held criminally or civilly liable under any Federal or State trade secret law for the disclosure of a trade secret that-

2.4.1.1.0.sec=is made-

2.4.1.1.1.sec=in confidence to a Federal, State, or local government official, either directly or indirectly, or to an attorney; and

2.4.1.1.2.sec=solely for the purpose of reporting or investigating a suspected violation of law; or 

2.4.1.1.=[G/Z/ol-i/s2]

2.4.1.2.sec=is made in a complaint or other document filed in a lawsuit or other proceeding, if such filing is made under seal.

2.4.1.=[G/Z/ol-AA/2]

2.4.2.Ti=USE OF TRADE SECRET INFORMATION IN ANTI-RETALIATION LAWSUIT

2.4.2.sec=An individual who files a lawsuit for retaliation by an employer for reporting a suspected violation of law may disclose the trade secret to the attorney of the individual and use the trade secret information in the court proceeding, if the individual-

2.4.2.1.sec=files any document containing the trade secret under seal; and 

2.4.2.2.sec=does not disclose the trade secret, except pursuant to court order.

2.4.2.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s2]

2.4.=[G/Z/ol-a/2]

2.5.Ti=PII

2.5.sec={_Employee} shall not, without authorization, disclose or expose any individual’s personally identifiable information, whether or not such information constitutes {_Confidential_Information}, held by {_Company} (“{DefT.PII}”). {_Employee} shall comply with all {_Company} policies, written or otherwise, regarding the protection and management of {_PII}.

2.=[G/Z/ol/5]

3.Ti=INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY.

3.1.Ti=Reporting of Inventions.

3.1.sec={_Employee} shall promptly disclose to {_Company} all computer software programs, other works of authorship, formulas, processes, compositions of matter, databases, mask works,  improvements, logos, symbols, designs, and other inventions that {_Employee} makes, conceives, reduces to practice, or creates, either alone or jointly with others, during the period of his/her employment with {_Company} (collectively, “{DefT.Inventions}”), whether or not in the course of employment and whether or not such {_Inventions} are patentable, copyrightable, protectable as trade secrets, or otherwise subject to intellectual property protection.

3.2.Ti={_Company} Ownership of Work Product.

3.2.0.sec=An {_Invention} will be considered “{DefT.Work_Product}” and will be {_Company}’s sole property if it fits any of the following three criteria: (1) it is developed using equipment, supplies, facilities, or trade secrets of {_Company}; (2) it results from {_Employee}’s work for {_Company}; or (3) it relates to {_Company}’s business or its current or anticipated research and development.

3.2.1.Ti=Work-for-Hire.

3.2.1.sec=To the extent permissible under applicable law, {_Work_Product} will be considered work made for hire pursuant to the U.S. Copyright Act, 17 U.S.C. §§ 101 et seq., and any foreign equivalent thereof.

3.2.2.Ti=Assignment.

3.2.2.0.sec=To the extent, if any, that {_Company} does not own full right, title and interest in and to the {_Work_Product} pursuant to Subsection {3.2.1.Xnum} above, {_Employee} hereby assigns to {_Company} all of his or her ownership, right, title, and interest in and to all {_Work_Product}, including, without limitation: 

3.2.2.1.sec=all copyrights, patents, rights in mask works, trademarks, trade secrets, and other intellectual property rights and all other rights that may hereafter be vested relating to the {_Work_Product}, arising under U.S. or any other law, together with all national, foreign, state, provincial, and common law registrations, applications for registration, and renewals and extensions thereof;

3.2.2.2.sec=all goodwill associated with {_Work_Product}; and (iii) all benefits, privileges, causes of action, and remedies relating to any of the foregoing, whether before or hereafter accrued (including without limitation the exclusive rights to apply for such registrations, renewals, and/or extensions, to sue for all past infringements or violations of any of the foregoing, and to settle and retain proceeds from any such actions). 

3.2.2.=[G/Z/ol-i/s2]

3.2.=[G/Z/ol-a/2]

3.3.Ti=Backup License.

3.3.sec=To the extent, if any, that this Article 3 does not provide {_Company} with full ownership, right, title, and interest in and to the {_Work_Product}, {_Employee} hereby grants {_Company} a perpetual, irrevocable, fully paid, royalty-free, worldwide license to reproduce, create derivative works from, distribute, publicly display, publicly perform, use, make, have made, offer for sale, sell or otherwise dispose of, and import the {_Work_Product}, with the right to sublicense each and every such right. Exercise of {_Company}’s rights pursuant to this Section {3.3.Xnum} does not excuse any breach of {_Employee}’s obligations pursuant to Section {3.2.Xnum} above.

3.4.Ti=Prior Inventions.

3.4.sec={_Employee} represents that Attachment A attached to this {_Agreement} is a list of all {_Employee}’s {_Inventions} prior to the {_Effective_Date} which {_Employee} has not separately assigned to {_Company} (collectively “{DefT.Prior_Inventions}”), and that if Attachment A is blank or not included, there are no {_Prior_Inventions}. {_Employee} shall not incorporate any {_Prior_Invention} into the {_Work_Product} or otherwise use any {_Prior_Invention} in his/her work for {_Company} without {_Company}’s prior written consent.

3.5.Ti=Moral Rights.

3.5.sec=In addition to the foregoing transfers and allocations of rights, {_Employee} hereby irrevocably transfers and assigns to {_Company} any and all “moral rights” {_Employee} may have in or with respect to the {_Work_Product}. {_Employee} also hereby forever waives and agrees that he/she shall never, even after termination of employment with {_Company}, assert any moral rights with respect to the {_Work_Product}. “Moral rights” include any rights to claim authorship of or credit on a work of authorship, to object to or prevent the modification or destruction of a work of authorship, or to withdraw from circulation or control the publication or distribution of a work of authorship, and any similar right, existing under judicial or statutory law of any country or subdivision of a country, or under any treaty, regardless of whether or not such right is described as a “moral right.”

3.6.Ti=Further Assistance.

3.6.sec={_Employee} shall help {_Company} obtain and enforce patents, copyrights, rights in mask works, trade secret rights, and other legal protections for the {_Work_Product} in any and all jurisdictions throughout the world. {_Employee} shall execute any documents {_Company} reasonably requests for use in obtaining or enforcing such rights and protections. To the extent that such assistance occurs after {_Employee}’s leaves employment with {_Company}, {_Company} shall compensate {_Employee} at a reasonable rate for time and expenses spent at {_Company}’s request pursuant to this Section {3.6.Xnum}. {_Employee} hereby appoints {_Company} or its designated representative as {_Employee}’s attorney-in-fact to execute documents on {_Employee}’s behalf for the purposes set forth in this Section {3.6.Xnum}.

3.7.Ti=Exception to Assignments.

3.7.sec={_Employee} is on notice and understands that the provisions of this {_Agreement} requiring assignment of inventions to {_Company} do not apply to any invention which qualifies fully under the provisions of California Labor Code Section 2870 (attached hereto as Attachment B). {_Employee} shall advise {_Company} promptly in writing of any {_Inventions} he/she believes meet the criteria of California Labor Code Section 2870.

3.=[G/Z/ol/7]

4.Ti=OTHER EMPLOYERS, THIRD PARTIES, & TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT. 

4.1.Ti=Former Employers & Disclosers.

4.1.sec={_Employee} shall not, during his/her employment with {_Company}: (a) improperly use or disclose any proprietary information or trade secrets of any former or concurrent employer or other person or entity (collectively, any “{DefT.Third_Party}”); or (b) bring onto {_Company}’s premises any unpublished document or proprietary information belonging to any {_Third_Party} without such {_Third_Party}’s prior written consent.

4.2.Ti=Returning Company Documents.

4.2.sec=Upon or before leaving {_Company} employment, {_Employee} shall deliver to {_Company}, and not recreate or deliver to anyone else, all {_Confidential_Information}, as well as any and all devices, records, data, notes, reports, proposals, lists, correspondence, specifications, drawings, blueprints, sketches, materials, equipment, other documents or property, or reproductions of any foregoing, developed by {_Employee} pursuant to employment with {_Company} or otherwise belonging to {_Company} or its successors or assigns.

4.3.Ti=Notification of New Employer.

4.3.sec=In the event that {_Employee} leaves {_Company}’s employ, he/she hereby consents to {_Company}’s notification of such new employer about {_Employee}’s duties pursuant to this {_Agreement}.

4.=[G/Z/ol/3]

5.Ti=MISCELLANEOUS.

5.1.Ti=Injunction.

5.1.sec={_Employee} agrees that breach of this {_Agreement} would cause {_Company} irreparable injury, for which monetary damages would not provide adequate compensation, and that in addition to any other remedy, {_Company} will be entitled to injunctive relief against such breach or threatened breach, without proving actual damage or posting a bond or other security.

5.2.Ti=Survival.

5.2.sec=The rights and obligations of Articles {2.Xnum}, {3.Xnum}, and {4.Xnum} above will survive any termination or expiration of this {_Agreement} or of {_Employee}’s employment with {_Company}, as will any provision that must survive to fulfill its essential purpose.

5.3.Ti=Severability.

5.3.sec=To the extent permitted by applicable law, the parties hereby waive any provision of law that would render any clause of this {_Agreement} invalid or otherwise unenforceable in any respect. In the event that a provision of this {_Agreement} is held to be invalid or otherwise unenforceable, such provision will be interpreted to fulfill its intended purpose to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, and the remaining provisions of this {_Agreement} will continue in full force and effect.

5.4.Ti=No Waiver.

5.4.sec=Neither party will be deemed to have waived any of its rights under this {_Agreement} by lapse of time or by any statement or representation other than by an authorized representative in an explicit written waiver. No waiver of a breach of this {_Agreement} will constitute a waiver of any other breach of this {_Agreement}.

5.5.Ti=Choice of Law & Jurisdiction:

5.5.sec=This {_Agreement} will be governed solely by the internal laws of {Law.State.the}, including applicable U.S. federal law, without reference to any conflicts of law principle that would apply the substantive laws of another jurisdiction to the parties’ rights or duties. The parties consent to the personal and exclusive jurisdiction of {Tribunal.cl}. This Section {5.5.Xnum} governs all claims arising out of or related to this {_Agreement}, including without limitation tort claims.

5.6.Ti=Entire Agreement.

5.6.sec=This {_Agreement} sets forth the entire agreement of the parties regarding its subject matter and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous writings, negotiations, and discussions with respect to such subject matter. Neither party has relied upon any such prior or contemporaneous communications.

5.7.Ti=Amendment.

5.7.sec=This {_Agreement} may not be amended except through a written agreement executed by authorized representatives of each party.

By.0.sec=IN WITNESS THEREOF, the parties have executed this {_Agreement} as of the {_Effective_Date}.

5.=[G/Z/ol/7]

=[G/AgtForm/US/Frame/Company-Employee/0.md]

=[G/Z/ol/5]

Annex.Sec=<h3>Attachments</h3><br><h4>ATTACHMENT A</h4><br>{Annex.PriorInventions.Sec}<h4>ATTACHMENT B</h4>{Annex.StatutoryException.Sec}

ATTACHMENT A

Annex.PriorInventions.=[G/TechContracts/Assignment-NDA/Sec/PriorInventions/0.md]
 
ATTACHMENT B

Annex.StatutoryException.=[G/TechContracts/Assignment-NDA/Sec/US-CA-LaborCode-Sec-2870/0.md]

Note=Defined terms that are not part of the usuals in the AgtForm frame:

DefT.PII=<a class='definedterm' href='{!!!}DefT.PII'>PII</a>

_PII=<a class='definedterm' href='{!!!}DefT.PII'>PII</a>

DefT.Prior_Inventions=<a class='definedterm' href='{!!!}DefT.Prior_Inventions'>Prior Inventions</a>

_Prior_Inventions=<a class='definedterm' href='{!!!}DefT.Prior_Inventions'>Prior Inventions</a>

_Prior_Invention=<a class='definedterm' href='{!!!}DefT.Prior_Inventions'>Prior Invention</a>


2.Xnum=<a class='xref' href='{!!!}2.Sec'>2</a>

3.Xnum=<a class='xref' href='{!!!}3.Sec'>3</a>

3.2.Xnum={3.Xnum}.<a class='xref' href='{!!!}3.2.Sec'>2</a>

3.2.1.Xnum={3.2.Xnum}<a class='xref' href='{!!!}3.2.1.Sec'>(a)</a>

3.3.Xnum={3.Xnum}.<a class='xref' href='{!!!}3.3.Sec'>3</a>

3.6.Xnum={3.Xnum}.<a class='xref' href='{!!!}3.6.Sec'>6</a>

4.Xnum=<a class='xref' href='{!!!}4.Sec'>4</a>

5.Xnum=<a class='xref' href='{!!!}5.Sec'>5</a>

5.5.Xnum={5.Xnum}.<a class='xref' href='{!!!}5.5.Sec'>5</a>
