Ti=Data Rights and Ownership of Deliverables

1.sec={_18F} intends that any data or deliverable created as a result of the work performed under the task order be committed to the public domain.

2.0.sec=Further, {_18F} intends to commit the following items, to the public domain, at a minimum:

2.1.sec=- All data, documents, graphics and code created under this task order including but not limited to, plans, reports, schedules, schemas, metadata, architecture designs, and the like;

2.2.sec=- Any and all new open source software created by the contractor and forks or branches of current open source software where the contractor has made a modification; and,

2.3.sec=- Any and all new tooling, scripting configuration management, infrastructure as code, or any other final changes or edits to successfully deploy or operate the software.

2.=[Z/ol-none/s3]

3.sec=The Contractor shall use open source technologies wherever possible, in support of the {_18F} Source Code Policy. All licenses must be expressly listed in the deliverable. Regardless of license(s) used (e.g., MIT, GPL, Creative Commons 0) the license(s) shall be clearly listed in the documentation.

4.sec=If the contractor needs to use work that does not have an open source license, the contractor is required to request permission from {_18F}, in writing, before utilizing that work in any way in connection with the order. If approved, all licenses shall be clearly set forth in a conspicuous place when work is delivered to {_18F}.

5.sec=If an open source license provides implementation guidance, the contractor shall ensure compliance with that guidance. If implementation guidance is not available, the contractor shall attach or include the license within the work itself. Examples of this include code comments at the beginning of a file or contained in a license file within a software repository.

=[Z/paras/s5]
