Ti=MISCELLANEOUS

1.Ti=Injunction

1.sec=Employee agrees that breach of this Agreement would cause Company irreparable injury, for which monetary damages would not provide adequate compensation, and that in addition to any other remedy, Company will be entitled to injunctive relief against such breach or threatened breach, without proving actual damage or posting a bond or other security.

2.Ti=Survival

2.sec=The rights and obligations of Articles {2.Xnum}, {3.Xnum}, and {4.Xnum} above will survive any termination or expiration of this Agreement or of Employee’s employment with Company, as will any provision that must survive to fulfill its essential purpose.

3.Ti=Severability

3.sec=To the extent permitted by applicable law, the parties hereby waive any provision of law that would render any clause of this Agreement invalid or otherwise unenforceable in any respect. In the event that a provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid or otherwise unenforceable, such provision will be interpreted to fulfill its intended purpose to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, and the remaining provisions of this Agreement will continue in full force and effect.

4.Ti=No Waiver

Note=Using ITMA for consistency.  (Beginning to refactor.)

4.=[G/TechContractsCom-ITMA-CmA/Sec/GeneralTerm/Misc/Waive/0.md]

5.Ti=Choice of Law & Jurisdiction

5.=[G/TechContractsCom-ITMA-CmA/Sec/GeneralTerm/Misc/Dispute/0.md]

Dispute.Xnum={5.Xnum}

Note=Using the more developed Section from ITMA.

/5.5.sec=This Agreement will be governed solely by the internal laws of the State of ____________, including applicable U.S. federal law, without reference to any conflicts of law principle that would apply the substantive laws of another jurisdiction to the parties’ rights or duties. The parties consent to the personal and exclusive jurisdiction of the federal and state courts of __________ [city or county], _________ [state]. This Section {5.5.Xnum} governs all claims arising out of or related to this Agreement, including without limitation tort claims.

6.Ti=Entire Agreement

Note=Using ITMA for consistency.  (Beginning to refactor.)

6.=[G/TechContractsCom-ITMA-CmA/Sec/GeneralTerm/Misc/Entire/0.md]

Note=Using the Section from ITMA.


7.Ti=Amendment

7.sec=This Agreement may not be amended except through a written agreement executed by authorized representatives of each party.

=[G/Z/ol/7]
