
Ti=Which of the following best describes the stage of your solution and your team’s collective experience around implementation?

0.sec=Select one.

1.prompt=Research and ideation: Your team is in the process of developing a new solution. You have not yet started implementation of that solution with any target beneficiaries.

1.comment=The 100&Change competition prioritizes solutions that have a strong evidence base and are delivered by teams with the right skills, capacity, and experience. Solutions that are early in their development or evolution without an existing evidence base are unlikely to be competitive. To understand our approach to reviewing solutions at this stage, you may read this blog post, explaining how similar solutions at this stage were screened during administrative review in 2016.

2.prompt=Proof of concept: Your team has developed a new solution and is in the process of testing and refining it with a small number of target beneficiaries - you are beginning to develop evidence of impact.

2.comment=The 100&Change competition prioritizes solutions that have a strong evidence base and are delivered by teams with the right skills, capacity, and experience. Solutions that are early in their development or evolution without a strong existing evidence base are unlikely to be competitive in this process. In fact, solutions that are too early in their project timeline and solutions with weak evidence of effectiveness are likely to be screened out of the competition. To understand our approach to reviewing solutions at this stage, you may read this blog post, explaining how similar solutions at this stage were screened during administrative review in 2016.

3.prompt=Scaling: You have evidence that your solution achieves impact, and your team has experience delivering the solution. You are in the process of expanding and adapting the solution to a greater number of target beneficiaries, potentially in new geographies. You are continuing to monitor for impact and refine the approach but have yet to achieve large-scale implementation.

3.comment=Great. We are looking for solutions that have a strong existing evidence base and a team that has demonstrated an ability to adapt and grow a solution. We will ask for more information about your team and your ability to scale in the Application.

4.prompt=Operating at scale: You have evidence that your solution achieves impact, and your team has experience delivering the solution. You are delivering your solution at scale and are not in the process of expanding target beneficiaries substantially. You are continuing to monitor for impact and refine the approach.

4.comment=Great. We are looking for solutions that have a strong existing evidence base and a team that has demonstrated an ability to adapt and grow a solution. We will ask for more information about your team and your history of scaling in the Application.

1.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

2.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

3.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

4.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

=[G/Z/ol/s4]
