Ti=Term & Termination

sec=<ol><li>{Term.Sec}<li>{TerminationCause.Sec}<li>{TerminationConvenience.Sec}<li>{TerminationEffect.Sec}</ol>

Term.Ti=Term

Term.0.sec=This <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> will continue until terminated by either party as specifically authorized herein.

Term.1.Ti=License Term

Term.1.1.sec=<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.License_Term.sec'>License Term</a> refers to the {LicenseTerm.Period} period following the Effective Date.

[FootNote A11]=This is a particularly vendor-friendly start-date. <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a>s generally prefer <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Go-Live.sec'>Go-Live</a>.

Term.1.2.sec= The <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.License_Term.sec'>License Term</a> will renew automatically for a period of the same duration unless <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> gives written notice of its intent not to renew {LicenseRenewal.AutomaticUnless.NoticePeriod.Days} before the end of the current <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.License_Term.sec'>License Term</a>.

Term.1.3.sec=After the {LicenseGuaranteedRenewalCycles.#} renewal of the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.License_Term.sec'>License Term</a>, <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> may refuse further renewal by written notice {LicenseGuaranteedRenewalCycles.EndNoticePeriod.Days} before the next renewal date.

Term.1.=[G/Z/para/s3]

Term.2.Ti=Maintenance Term

Term.2.1.sec=<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Maintenance_Term.sec'>Maintenance Term</a> refers to the {MaintenanceTerm.Period} following <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Go-Live.sec'>Go-Live</a>.

[FootNote A12]=This is particularly customer-friendly. <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a>s generally prefer delivery or the effective date.

Term.2.2.sec=The <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Maintenance_Term.sec'>Maintenance Term</a> will renew automatically for a period of the same duration unless <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> gives written notice of its intent not to renew {MaintenanceTerm.AutomaticRenewalUnlessNotice.Days} before the end of the current <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Maintenance_Term.sec'>Maintenance Term</a>.

Term.2.3.sec=After the {MaintenanceGuaranteedRenewalCycles.#} renewal of the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Maintenance_Term.sec'>Maintenance Term</a>, <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> may refuse further renewal by written notice {MaintenanceGuaranteedRenewalCycles.EndNoticePeriod.Days} before the next renewal date.

Term.2.=[G/Z/para/s3]

Term.=[G/Z/ol-a/2]

TerminationCause.Ti=Termination for Cause

TerminationCause.sec=Either party may terminate this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> for the other’s material breach by written notice specifying in detail the nature of the breach, effective in 30 days unless the other party first cures such breach, or effective immediately if the breach is not subject to cure.

TerminationCause.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

TerminationConvenience.Ti=Termination for Convenience

TerminationConvenience.sec=<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> may terminate this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> for convenience at any time before <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Go-Live.sec'>Go-Live</a> upon {Termination.ForConvenienceByCustomer.Notice.Days}’ advanced written notice. On the date of such termination, <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> shall pay <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> an early termination fee of {Termination.ForConvenienceByCustomer.TerminationFee.%} of the fees for <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customization_Services.sec'>Customization Services</a> not yet performed.

TerminationConvenience.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

TerminationEffect.Ti=Effects of Termination

TerminationEffect.sec=Upon termination of this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> or <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.License_Term.sec'>License Term</a>, <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> shall cease all use of the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a> and delete, destroy, or return all copies of the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a>, <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Documentation.sec'>Documentation</a>, and <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Deposit_Material.sec'>Deposit Material</a> (as defined in Subsection {SourceCodeEscrow.Deposit.Xnum}(a) above) in its possession or control. The following will survive termination or expiration of this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a>: (a) any obligation of <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> to pay fees incurred before termination; (b) Articles and Sections {License.Restrict.Xnum} (Restrictions on Software Rights) {IP.Xnum} (IP & Feedback), {ConfInfo.Xnum} (Confidential Information), {SoftwareAudit.Xnum} (Software Audit), {Warrant.Limit.Xnum} (Warranty Disclaimers), {Indemnify.Xnum} (Indemnification), and {LimitLiability.Xnum} (Limitation of Liability); and (c) any other provision of this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> that must survive to fulfill its essential purpose.

TerminationEffect.=[G/Z/ol-a/2]

=[G/Z/ol/4]
