Note=From <a href="https://data.kcmo.org/terms">https://data.kcmo.org/terms</a> visited 2015-11-24

Ti=Data Terms of Use

1.Ti=Disclaimer of Liability

1.sec=The City of Kansas City (“City”) voluntarily provides the data on this website as a service to the public. The City makes no warranty, representation, or guaranty as to the content, accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any of the data provided at this website. The City makes this data available on an “as is” basis and explicitly disclaims any representations and warranties, including, without limitation, the implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose. The City shall assume no liability for: 1. any errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the data provided at this website regardless how caused; or, 2. any decision made or action taken or not taken by anyone using or relying upon data provided at this website. The City assumes no liability for any virus or other damage to any electronic device that might occur during or as a result of accessing this website or the data provided herein.

2.Ti=Use of Data

2.1.sec=Any user of this website providing any software application, or other secondary or derivative application using data supplied at this website shall do the following: Include the following disclaimer at the site where the software application, or other secondary or derivative application can be accessed or downloaded:

2.2.sec=“This site provides applications using data that has been modified for use from its original source, www.data.kcmo.gov, the official open data website of the City of Kansas City. The City of Kansas City makes no claims as to the content, accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any of the data provided at this site. The data provided at this site is subject to change at any time. It is understood that the data provided at this site is being used at one’s own risk.”

2.3.sec=Comply with any additional Terms of Use set forth by the City agency or department providing data used by the software application, or other secondary or derivative application, including, without limitation, requirements to include additional citations or disclaimers at the site where the application can be accessed or downloaded.

2.=[Z/paras/s3]

3.Ti=Reservation of Rights

3.sec=The City reserves the right to discontinue availability of content on this website at any time and for any reason. The City reserves the right to claim or seek to protect any patent, copyright, trademark, or other intellectual property rights in any of the information, images, software, or processes displayed or used at this website. These Terms of Use do not grant anyone any title or right to any patent, copyright, trademark or other intellectual property rights that the City may have in any of the information, images, software, or processes displayed or used at this website.

4.Ti=Indemnity

4.sec=To the fullest extent permitted by law, any user of the data provided at this website shall indemnify and hold harmless the City from any claim, loss, damage, injury, or liability of any kind (including, without limitation, incidental and consequential damages, court costs, attorney’s fees and costs of investigation), that arises directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, from that user’s use of this data, including any secondary or derivative use of the information provided herein.

=[Z/ol/4]