
Ti=MISCELLANEOUS

1.Ti=Independent Contractors

1.sec=The parties are independent contractors and will so represent themselves in all regards. Neither party is the agent of the other, and neither may make commitments on the other’s behalf.

2.Ti=Notices

2.0.sec=Notices pursuant to this Agreement shall be sent to the addresses below, or to such others as either party may provide in writing. Such notices will be deemed received at such addresses upon the earlier of (a) actual receipt or (b) delivery in person, by fax with written confirmation of receipt, or by certified mail return receipt requested.

2.1.sec=For Provider: {Provider.US.Notice.Block}

2.2.sec=For Distributor: {Distributor.US.Notice.Block} 

2.=[G/Z/ol-a/s2]

3.Ti=Force Majeure

3.sec=No delay, failure, or default, other than a failure to pay royalties when due, will constitute a breach of this Agreement to the extent caused by acts of war, terrorism, hurricanes, earthquakes, other acts of God or of nature, strikes or other labor disputes, riots or other acts of civil disorder, embargoes, or other causes beyond the performing party’s reasonable control.

4.Ti=Assignment & Successors

4.sec=Distributor may not assign this Agreement or any of its rights or obligations hereunder without Provider’s express written consent. Except to the extent forbidden in this Section {4.Xnum}, this Agreement will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties’ respective successors and assigns.

5.Ti=Severability

5.sec=To the extent permitted by applicable law, the parties hereby waive any provision of law that would render any clause of this Agreement invalid or otherwise unenforceable in any respect. In the event that a provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid or otherwise unenforceable, such provision will be interpreted to fulfill its intended purpose to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, and the remaining provisions of this Agreement will continue in full force and effect.

6.Ti=No Waiver

6.sec=Neither party will be deemed to have waived any of its rights under this Agreement by lapse of time or by any statement or representation other than by an authorized representative in an explicit written waiver. No waiver of a breach of this Agreement will constitute a waiver of any other breach of this Agreement.

7.Ti=Government Restricted Rights

7.sec=The Licensed Software is provided with Restricted Rights. Use, duplication, or disclosure for or by the government of the United States, including without limitation any of its agencies or instrumentalities, is subject to restrictions set forth, as applicable: (i) in subparagraphs (a) through (d) of the Commercial Computer Licensed Software-Restricted Rights clause at FAR 52.227-19; or (ii) in similar clauses in other federal regulations, including the NASA FAR supplement. The contractor or manufacturer is Provider. Distributor shall not remove or deface any restricted rights notice or other legal notice appearing in the Licensed Software or on any packaging or other media associated with the Licensed Software.

8.Ti=Bankruptcy Rights

8.sec=The rights and licenses granted to Distributor in Sections {License.1.Xnum} (License) and {License.4.Xnum} (Documentation) above (collectively, the “License Provisions”) are licenses to “intellectual property” rights, as defined in Section 365(n) of the United States Bankruptcy Code (11 U.S.C. Sections 101, et seq.). If Provider is subject to any proceeding under the United States Bankruptcy Code, and Provider as debtor in possession or its trustee in bankruptcy rejects this Agreement, Distributor may, pursuant to 11 U.S.C. Section 365(n)(1) and (2), retain any and all rights granted to it under the License Provisions to the maximum extent permitted by law. This Section {8.Xnum} will not be construed to limit or restrict any right or remedy not set forth in this Section {8.Xnum}, including without limitation the right to retain any license or authority this Agreement grants pursuant to any provision other than the License Provisions.

9.Ti=Choice of Law & Jurisdiction

9.=[G/TechContractsCom-ITMA-CmA/Sec/GeneralTerm/Misc/Dispute/0.md]

Note=Using the ITMA section, which has the same substance, though slightly different wording.  Note also that it ITMA section is made into subsections.

/9.sec=This Agreement will be governed solely by the internal laws of {Law.State.the}, including without limitation applicable federal law, without reference to: (a) any conflicts of law principle that would apply the substantive laws of another jurisdiction to the parties’ rights or duties; (b) the 1980 United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods; or (c) other international laws. The parties consent to the personal and exclusive jurisdiction of the federal and state courts of __________ [city or county], _________ [state]. This Section {9.Xnum} governs all claims arising out of or related to this Agreement, including without limitation tort claims.

10.Ti=Conflicts

10.sec=In the event of any conflict between Attachment A or Attachment B and this main body of this Agreement, this main body will govern.

11.Ti=Construction

11.sec=The parties agree that the terms of this Agreement result from negotiations between them. This Agreement will not be construed in favor of or against either party by reason of authorship.

12.Ti=Technology Export

12.sec=Distributor shall not: (a) permit any third party to access or use the Licensed Software in violation of any U.S. law or regulation; or (b) export the Licensed Software or otherwise remove it from the United States except in compliance with all applicable U.S. laws and regulations. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Distributor shall not permit any third party to access or use the Licensed Software in, or export it to, a country subject to a United States embargo (as of the Effective Date, Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Sudan, and Syria).

13.Ti=Entire Agreement

13.=[G/TechContractsCom-ITMA-CmA/Sec/GeneralTerm/Misc/Entire/0.md]

/13.sec=This Agreement sets forth the entire agreement of the parties and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous writings, negotiations, and discussions with respect to its subject matter. Neither party has relied upon any such prior or contemporaneous communications.

14.Ti=Execution in Counterparts

14.sec=This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts. Each counterpart will be an original, but all such counterparts will constitute a single instrument.

15.Ti=Amendment

15.sec=This Agreement may not be amended except through a written agreement by authorized representatives of each party.

=[G/Z/ol/15]

1.Xnum={Misc.Xnum}.<a href="#Misc.1.sec" class="xref">1</a>

2.Xnum={Misc.Xnum}.<a href="#Misc.2.sec" class="xref">2</a>

3.Xnum={Misc.Xnum}.<a href="#Misc.3.sec" class="xref">3</a>

4.Xnum={Misc.Xnum}.<a href="#Misc.4.sec" class="xref">4</a>

5.Xnum={Misc.Xnum}.<a href="#Misc.5.sec" class="xref">5</a>

6.Xnum={Misc.Xnum}.<a href="#Misc.5.sec" class="xref">6</a>

7.Xnum={Misc.Xnum}.<a href="#Misc.7.sec" class="xref">7</a>

8.Xnum={Misc.Xnum}.<a href="#Misc.8.sec" class="xref">8</a>

9.Xnum={Misc.Xnum}.<a href="#Misc.9.sec" class="xref">9</a>

10.Xnum={Misc.Xnum}.<a href="#Misc.10.sec" class="xref">10</a>

11.Xnum={Misc.Xnum}.<a href="#Misc.11.sec" class="xref">11</a>

12.Xnum={Misc.Xnum}.<a href="#Misc.12.sec" class="xref">12</a>

13.Xnum={Misc.Xnum}.<a href="#Misc.13.sec" class="xref">13</a>

14.Xnum={Misc.Xnum}.<a href="#Misc.14.sec" class="xref">14</a>

15.Xnum={Misc.Xnum}.<a href="#Misc.15.sec" class="xref">15</a>


Dispute.Xnum={Misc.Xnum}.<a href="#Misc.9.sec" class="xref">9</a>
