Ti=Public Proceedings

1.sec=Ordinarily, oral hearings, including hearings in which evidence is presented and in which judgment is pronounced, should be open to the public. Following consultation with the parties, the court may order that hearings or portions thereof be kept confidential in the interest of justice, public safety, or privacy.

2.sec=Court files and records should be public or otherwise accessible to persons with a legal interest or making a responsible inquiry, according to forum law.

3.sec=In the interest of justice, public safety, or privacy, if the proceedings are public, the judge may order part of them to be conducted in private.

4.sec=Judgments, including supporting reasons, and ordinarily other orders, should be accessible to the public. Comment:

=[G/Z/ol/s4]

P-20A There are conflicting approaches concerning publicity of various components of proceedings. In some civil-law countries, the court files and records are generally kept in confidence although they are open to disclosure for justifiable cause, whereas in the common-law tradition they are generally public. One approach emphasizes the public aspect of judicial proceedings and the need for transparency, while the other emphasizes respect for the parties’ privacy. These Principles express a preference for public proceedings, with limited exceptions. In general, court files and records should be public and accessible to the public and news media. Countries that have a tradition of keeping court files confidential should at least make them accessible to persons with a legal interest or making a responsible inquiry.

P-20B In some systems the court upon request of a party may grant privacy of all proceedings except the final judgment. Some systems have a constitutional guaranty of publicity in judicial proceedings, but have special exceptions for such matters as trade secrets, matters of national security, etc. Arbitration proceedings are generally conducted in privacy.
