1.	Header 
2.	Data Controller Contact & Policy 
3.	Purpose Specification 
4.	Personal Information 
5.	Information Sharing


Note1=Section 1: Header	------	This is the first section of the receipt	-------------

jurisdiction=string. ISO two-letter country code if applicable, otherwise free text	This is the legal jurisdiction under which the processing of personal data occurs	US

iat=number. Integer number of seconds since 1970-01-01 00:00:00 GMT	Timestamp of when the consent was issued	1435367226

iss=string. HTTPS URL	This is the URI or Internet location of processing, i.e., one party-two party or three	http://www.consentreceipt.org/

jti=string.	Unique identifier for this consent receipt	9ef6b81a414b2432ec6e3d384c5a36cea8aa0c30d3dd2b67364126ed80856f9c20654f032eef87ad981187da8c23c1186eefe1503714835c2e952bbb3f22729c

sub=string.	Subject provided identifier, email address - or Claim, defined/namespaced 	example@example.com


Note2=Section 2: Data Controller	----------	This section has the data controller, contact and privacy service information	-----------------------
data_controller=object	The identity and company of the data controller and any party nominated to be data controller on behalf of org	{"on_behalf": true, "contact": "Dave Controller", "company": "Data Controller Inc.", "address": "123 St., Place", "email": "dave@datacontroller.com", "phone": "00-123-341-2351"}
Note2.1=The object contains information of the data controller in the following fields:<br>Field Name Data Type Description Example Input Required on_behalf Boolean. acting on behalf of an organization? true contact string. person to contact Jon Doe company string. company name Data Controller Inc. address string. physical address 123 Main St., Anywhere email string. Email address contact email address jon@datacontroller.com phone string. Phone number contact phone number 00-000-000-0000
	
policy_uri=string. HTTP URL	the internet and immediately accessible privacy policy of the service referred to by the receipt	http://example.com/privacy

Note3=Section 3: Purpose Specification			

purpose=array of strings.	Explicit, Specific and Legitimate: interpreted here as: 'Naming the Service' and 'Stating the Active Purpose ' see Appendix A these requirements,	[Bob’s store, delivery, ]or [ [" CISWG Membership", "Join"]

Note4=Section 4: Personal Information			

pi_collected=object. Keys are the name of the field, value is the information collected.	Personal information collected in relation to, or adjacent of purposes specified	{"name" : "Example Example", "email" : "example@example.com"}

sensitive_pi=array of strings.	In many jurisdictions their are additional notice and administrative requirements for the collection, storage and processing of what are called Sensitive Personal Information Categories. These are Sensitive in the business, legal, and technical sense, but not specifically in the personal context. This list of categories are required in some jurisdiction, but, the actual notice and purpose requirements are out the scope of the MVCR.	{"health"}

Note5=Section 5: Information Sharing		Sharing information with 3rd parties, what categories, with whom, and how information is shared	

sharing=array of strings.	This refers to the sharing of personal information collected about the individual, with another external party by the data controller (service provider). Should list categories of PII shared, from above list and under what purpose. Sharing is also a container for listing trust marks and trust protocols.	[?]

Note6=In Review			

aud=string. HTTP URL	Audience URI that identifies the target service of this consent	http://engageidentity.com/protected
consent_payload	object. Keys are the name of the consent, values are whether or not the user has agreed.	Examples include: Device Identifier, UID, IP Address, Browser Fingerprint, DNT signal client header, .Mobile device id	{"privacy policy" : "agree","ToS" : "agree"}

context=array of strings.	Operational Context refers to the conditions that ensure the consent is fair, reasonable and proportional. , e.g. if it is on a website, then there are requirements like; are mandatory fields indicated, is there a separate consent for privacy policy and terms of service? set of registry values?	["active privacy policy consent", "passive terms of service consent"]

notice=string. HTTP URL	Link to the short notice enables usability and layered policy. to provide enhanced transparency about data collection and information sharing practices	http://example.com/notice

scopes=string. space separated string values	What you’re allowed to do on the service (these can be tied to legal / business / technical layers)	read update
