
Ti=If you accidentally damage or injure others

1.Ti=This policy protects you if someone claims you’ve caused them bodily injury or property damage.

1.1.sec=If needed, we’ll provide legal defense at our own expense and pay the damages on your behalf. The maximum amount we’ll pay in damages is {CoverageOption.DamageOthers.Total.$} per year. You can increase that <a href="In the real doc, this will open our Live Policy editor">here</a>.

1.2.sec=Since we’re paying, we may investigate, settle, or contest the complaint as we judge best.

1.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

2.Ti=What’s not covered

2.1.sec=We cover claims of bodily injury or property damage, not stress, mental anguish, or reputational damage.

2.2.sec=Damages covered by other types of insurance (such as auto, boat, or professional liability insurance), aren’t covered by this one.

2.3.sec=Damage caused by drones, other flying machines or motorized vehicles of any kind (such as electric bikes, segways, or electric skateboards) aren’t covered.

2.4.sec=We cover fire damage to your apartment, but other damage to the unit you rent (like scratched floors) isn’t covered. That’s what the security deposit is for.

2.5.sec=We don’t cover damage caused by assault weapons (as defined by the Federal Assault Weapons Ban of 1994). Harm caused by other licensed firearms is covered, as long as they were <a href="https://oag.ca.gov/firearms/tips">stored securely and used responsibly</a>.

2.6.sec=Damage that’s related, or similar to, something you’ve been accused of in the past ten years (e.g. your dog has bitten before) isn’t covered.

2.7.sec=We don’t cover damage caused intentionally, or as a result of illegal activity, by anyone listed on the policy.

2.=[G/Z/ol/s7]

=[G/Z/ol/2]
