Ti=Article 56 - Competence of the lead {_supervisory_authority}

1.sec=Without prejudice to Article 55, the {_supervisory_authority} of the {_main_establishment} or of the single establishment of the {_controller} or {_processor} shall be competent to act as lead {_supervisory_authority} for the {_cross-border_processing} carried out by that {_controller} or {_processor} in accordance with the procedure provided in Article 60.

2.sec=By derogation from paragraph 1, each {_supervisory_authority} shall be competent to handle a complaint lodged with it or a possible infringement of this Regulation, if the subject matter relates only to an establishment in its Member State or substantially affects {_data_subjects} only in its Member State.

3.sec=In the cases referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, the {_supervisory_authority} shall inform the lead {_supervisory_authority} without delay on that matter. Within a period of three weeks after being informed the lead {_supervisory_authority} shall decide whether or not it will handle the case in accordance with the procedure provided in Article 60, taking into account whether or not there is an establishment of the {_controller} or {_processor} in the Member State of which the {_supervisory_authority} informed it.

4.sec=Where the lead {_supervisory_authority} decides to handle the case, the procedure provided in Article 60 shall apply. The {_supervisory_authority} which informed the lead {_supervisory_authority} may submit to the lead {_supervisory_authority} a draft for a decision. The lead {_supervisory_authority} shall take utmost account of that draft when preparing the draft decision referred to in Article 60(3).

5.sec=Where the lead {_supervisory_authority} decides not to handle the case, the {_supervisory_authority} which informed the lead {_supervisory_authority} shall handle it according to Articles 61 and 62.

6.sec=The lead {_supervisory_authority} shall be the sole interlocutor of the {_controller} or {_processor} for the {_cross-border_processing} carried out by that {_controller} or {_processor}.

=[G/Z/ol/s6]
