Ti=COMMUNICATION BETWEEN THE PARTIES

1.Ti=Form and means of communication

1.1.0.sec=Any communication of information, notices or documents under the purchase order must:

1.1.1.sec=be made in writing in paper or electronic format in the language of the purchase order;

1.1.2.sec=bear the purchase order number;

1.1.3.sec=be made using the relevant communication details set out in the purchase order; and

1.1.4.sec=be sent by mail, email or via {_e-PRIOR}.

1.1.=[G/Z/ol-a/s4]

1.2.sec=If a party requests written confirmation of an e-mail within a reasonable time, the other party must provide an original signed paper version of the communication as soon as possible.

1.3.sec=The parties agree that any communication made by email has full legal effect and is admissible as evidence in judicial proceedings.

1.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

2.Ti=Date of communications by mail and email

2.1.sec=Any communication is deemed to have been made when the receiving party receives it, unless this purchase order refers to the date when the communication was sent.

2.2.sec=E-mail is deemed to have been received by the receiving party on the day of dispatch of that e-mail, provided that it is sent to the e-mail address indicated in the purchase order. The sending party must be able to prove the date of dispatch. In the event that the sending party receives a non-delivery report, it must make every effort to ensure that the other party actually receives the communication by email or mail. In such a case, the sending party is not held in breach of its obligation to send such communication within a specified deadline.

2.3.sec=Mail sent to the contracting authority is deemed to have been received by the contracting authority on the date on which the department responsible referred to in the purchase order registers it.

2.4.sec={_Formal_notifications} are considered to have been received by the receiving party on the date of receipt indicated in the proof received by the sending party that the message was delivered to the specified recipient.

2.=[G/Z/ol/s4]

3.Ti=Submission of e-documents via {_e-PRIOR}

3.1.sec=If provided for in the special conditions, the exchange of electronic documents (e-documents) such as invoices between the parties is automated through the use of the {_e-PRIOR} platform.

3.2.sec=This platform provides two possibilities for such exchanges: either through web services (machine-to-machine connection) or through a web application (the {_supplier_portal}).

3.3.sec=The contracting authority takes the necessary measures to implement and maintain electronic systems that enable the {_supplier_portal} to be used effectively.

3.4.sec=In the case of machine-to-machine connection, a direct connection is established between the parties’ {_back_offices}. In this case, the parties take the measures necessary on their side to implement and maintain electronic systems that enable the machine-to-machine connection to  be used effectively. The electronic systems are specified in the {_interface_control_document}. The contractor (or leader in the case of a joint tender) must take the necessary technical measures to set up a machine-to-machine connection and at its own cost.

3.5.sec=If communication via the {_supplier_portal} or via the web services (machine-to-machine connection) is hindered by factors beyond the control of one party, it must {_notify} the other immediately and the parties must take the necessary measures to restore this communication.

3.6.sec=If it is impossible to restore the communication within two working days, one party must {_notify} the other that alternative means of communication specified in Article {Communicate.1.Xnum} will be used until the {_supplier_portal} or the machine-to-machine connection is restored.

3.7.sec=When a change in the {_interface_control_document} requires adaptations, the contractor (or leader in the case of a joint tender) has up to six months from receipt of the {_notification} to implement this change. This period can be shortened by mutual agreement of the parties. This period does not apply to urgent measures required by the security policy of the contracting authority to ensure integrity, confidentiality and non-repudiation of information and the availability of {_e-PRIOR}, which must be applied immediately.

3.=[G/Z/ol/s7]

4.Ti=Validity and date of e-documents

4.1.0.sec=The parties agree that any e-document, including related attachments exchanged via {_e-PRIOR}:

4.1.1.sec=is considered as equivalent to a paper document;

4.1.2.sec=is deemed to be the original of the document;

4.1.3.sec=is legally binding on the parties once an {_e-PRIOR} authorised person has performed the ‘sign’ action in {_e-PRIOR} and has full legal effect; and

4.1.4.sec=constitutes evidence of the information contained in it and is admissible as evidence in judicial proceedings.

4.1.=[G/Z/ol/s4]

4.2.sec=The parties expressly waive any rights to contest the validity of such a document solely on the grounds that communications between the parties occurred through {_e-PRIOR} or that the document has been signed through {_e-PRIOR}. If a direct connection is established between the parties’ {_back_offices} to allow electronic transfer of documents, the parties agree that an edocument, sent as mentioned in the {_interface_control_document}, qualifies as an {_EDI_message}.

4.3.sec=If the e-document is dispatched through the {_supplier_portal}, it is deemed to have been legally issued or sent when the contractor (or leader in the case of a joint tender) is able to successfully submit the e-document without any error messages. The generated PDF and XML document for the e-document are considered as a proof of receipt by the contracting authority.

4.4.sec=In the event that an e-document is dispatched using a direct connection established between the parties’ {_back_offices}, the e-document is deemed to have been legally issued or sent when its status is ‘received’ as defined in the {_interface_control_document}.

4.5.sec=When using the {_supplier_portal}, the contractor (or leader in the case of a joint tender) can download the PDF or XML message for each e-document for one year after submission. After this period, copies of the e-documents are no longer available for automatic download from the {_supplier_portal}. 

4.=[G/Z/ol/s5]

5.Ti=Authorised persons in e-PRIOR

5.1.sec=The contractor submits a request for each person who needs to be assigned the role of ‘user’ in {_e-PRIOR}. These persons are identified by means of the European Communication Authentication Service (ECAS) and authorised to access and perform actions in {_e-PRIOR} within the permissions of the user roles that the contracting authority has assigned to them.

5.2.sec=User roles enabling these {_e-PRIOR} authorised persons to sign legally binding documents such as specific tenders or specific contracts are granted only upon submission of supporting documents proving that the authorised person is empowered to act as a legal representative of the contractor.

5.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

=[G/Z/ol/5]
