EXHIBIT A
Ti=ADOPTION AGREEMENT

0.sec=This Adoption Agreement (“Adoption Agreement”) is executed on ___________________, 20__, by the undersigned (the “Holder”) pursuant to the terms of that certain Voting Agreement dated as of [_____ __, 20___] (the “Agreement”), by and among the Company and certain of its Stockholders, as such Agreement may be amended or amended and restated hereafter. Capitalized terms used but not defined in this Adoption Agreement shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in the Agreement. By the execution of this Adoption Agreement, the Holder agrees as follows:

1.Ti=Acknowledgement

1.0.sec=Holder acknowledges that Holder is acquiring certain shares of the capital stock of the Company (the “Stock”)[ or options, warrants, or other rights to purchase such Stock (the “Options”)], for one of the following reasons (Check the correct box):

1.1.sec=/__/  As a transferee of Shares from a party in such party’s capacity as an “Investor” bound by the Agreement, and after such transfer, Holder shall be considered an “Investor” and a “Stockholder” for all purposes of the Agreement.

1.2.sec=/__/  As a transferee of Shares from a party in such party’s capacity as a “Key Holder” bound by the Agreement, and after such transfer, Holder shall be considered a “Key Holder” and a “Stockholder” for all purposes of the Agreement.	

1.3.sec=/__/  As a new “Investor” in accordance with Section 7.1(a) of the Agreement, in which case Holder will be an “Investor” and a “Stockholder” for all purposes of the Agreement.

1.4.sec=/__/  In accordance with Section 7.1(b) of the Agreement, as a new party who is not a new “Investor,” in which case Holder will be a “Stockholder” for all purposes of the Agreement. 

1.=[G/Z/ol/s4]

2.Ti=Agreement

2.sec=Holder hereby (a) agrees that the Stock [Options], and any other shares of capital stock or securities required by the Agreement to be bound thereby, shall be bound by and subject to the terms of the Agreement and (b) adopts the Agreement with the same force and effect as if Holder were originally a party thereto.

3.Ti=Notice

3.sec=Any notice required or permitted by the Agreement shall be given to Holder at the address or facsimile number listed below Holder’s signature hereto. 

=[G/AgtForm/US/0.md]

=[G/Z/ol/3]

HOLDER:

ACCEPTED AND AGREED:

By: 		[COMPANY]

Name: 	

Title: 	

Address: 		By: 	
		Name: 	
E-mail Address: 		Title: 	
	
