Ti=TYPES OF TECHNIQUES

Perturbative_Techniques.Ti={Def.Perturbative_Techniques.Target}

Perturbative_Techniques.sec=A {_Perturbative_Technique} is a {_Pseudo-Anonymization} process that introduces uncertainty into a {_Dataset} through the alteration of attributes away from their “true” values.  {_Perturbative_Techniques} should be used with caution, for example, when the resulting values may be used in the control of a physical system.

Perturbative_Techniques.Example=A {_Dataset} contains the age of individuals.  The age attribute of each individual is altered by adding or subtracting a random number between 0 and 10.  For example, records for three 25-year-old individuals might be altered to have ages 22, 27, and 30.

Perturbative_Techniques.SeeAlso={_Deterministic_Technique}, {_Stochastic_Technique}

Perturbative_Techniques.=[G/responsible-data-use-policy/PrOb/RDSP-Def/Sec/Z/Sec.md]

Non-Perturbative_Techniques.Ti={Def.Non-Perturbative_Techniques.Target}

Non-Perturbative_Techniques.sec=A {_Non-Perturbative_Technique} is a {_Pseudo-Anonymization} process that introduces uncertainty through the reduction, not the alteration, of attribute information.

Non-Perturbative_Techniques.Example=A {_Dataset} contains the age of individuals.  The age attribute of each individual is truncated to the tens place.  For example, all records for 25-year-old individuals would indicate that their age is 20.

Non-Perturbative_Techniques.SeeAlso={_Deterministic_Technique}, {_Stochastic_Technique}

Non-Perturbative_Techniques.=[G/responsible-data-use-policy/PrOb/RDSP-Def/Sec/Z/Sec.md]

Deterministic_Techniques.Ti={Def.Deterministic_Techniques.Target}

Deterministic_Techniques.sec=A {_Deterministic_Technique} is a {_Pseudo-Anonymization} or {_Modeling} process that can be verified to produce the same output for the same inputs.  
SeeAlso={_Perturbative_Technique}, {_Non-Perturbative_Technique}
Example=A {_Dataset} contains the age of an individual.  The individuals are ranked by age, and each individual’s age is replaced by the next youngest age; the youngest individual is removed from the {_Dataset}.

Deterministic_Techniques.=[G/responsible-data-use-policy/PrOb/RDSP-Def/Sec/Z/Sec.md]

Stochastic_Techniques.Ti={Def.Stochastic_Techniques.Target}

Stochastic_Techniques.sec=A {_Stochastic_Technique} is one that may produce different results for the same input, typically due to the use of random number generation.

Stochastic_Techniques.Synonym={_Non-Deterministic}, {_Probabilistic}

Stochastic_Techniques.SeeAlso={_Perturbative_Technique}, {_Non-Perturbative_Technique}

Stochastic_Techniques.Example=A {_Dataset} contains the age of individuals.  The individuals are ranked by age, and each individual’s age is replaced at random by either the next youngest or next oldest age; the oldest and youngest individuals are removed from the {_Dataset}.

Stochastic_Techniques.=[G/responsible-data-use-policy/PrOb/RDSP-Def/Sec/Z/Sec.md]

sec=<ol><li>{Perturbative_Techniques.Sec}</li><li>{Non-Perturbative_Techniques.Sec}</li><li>{Deterministic_Techniques.Sec}</li><li>{Stochastic_Techniques.Sec}</li></ol>

=[G/Z/Base]
