Note=from <a href="http://www.jurisdiction.com/lic101.pdf">http://www.jurisdiction.com/lic101.pdf</a>

Ti=Skeleton of a License Agreement

0.1.sec=Every License Agreement should contain a framework - a skeleton - which provides support for other clauses or systems of clauses in the License Agreement. Sometimes these skeletal elements are scattered throughout the Agreement and, due to awkward drafting, can be difficult to find.

0.2.0.sec=The skeleton of a License Agreement is:

0.2.1.sec=- Identification of the Parties

0.2.2.sec=- Recitals

0.2.3.sec=- Definitions

0.2.4.sec=- License Grant

0.2.5.sec=- Compensation

0.2.6.sec=- Obligations of the Parties

0.2.7.sec=- Term and Termination

0.2.8.sec=- Conflict Resolution

0.2.9.sec=- Other Common Clauses

0.2.00.sec=Each of the above is discussed more fully below.

0.2.=[Z/ol-none/s9]

0.Ti=</i>

0.=[Z/ol-none/s2]

1.Ti=Identification of the Parties

1.1.sec=Although self-evident, the Agreement should be made between the party who has the right to grant the license and the party who will be exercising that license. Additional details, including the addresses for each of the parties, the jurisdiction of incorporation (for corporate entities) and the effective date of the Agreement, may also be included in the identification section of the Agreement.

1.2.sec=It is important to ensure that the full legal names of the parties are used to identify the parties. Only the parties that actually sign the Agreement will be legally bound to its provisions; if there is some concern about a “shell” corporation being the only one responsible to fulfil obligations or provide indemnities, it may be worth considering adding the parent company to the Agreement as a guarantor. 

1.3.sec=It is also helpful to consider using shorthand terms such as “Licensor” and “Licensee” to simplify the drafting the Agreement. But be careful – if there are more than two parties, the use of “Licensor” and “Licensee” may become confusing, especially if cross licenses are involved. It may be preferable to use shorthand terms that are more unique, to avoid confusion when drafting and reviewing the Agreement: for example, “ABC Company (Canada) Incorporated” could be shortened to “ABC Canada”.

1.=[Z/paras/s3]

2.Ti=Recitals

2.1.sec=The recitals tell the “story” of the parties and their relationship up to the time of the Agreement. For example, if the parties are entering into a license agreement as part of a settlement to an infringement action, the recitals can lay out the sequence of events leading up to the settlement. If the intellectual property rights that are the subject of the license were assigned or transferred, and the license is intended only to assist the seller in transitioning its business, this can also be set out in the recitals.

2.2.sec=Properly drafted recitals can be very useful tools in explaining the context and background of the license to a reader, and can assist in the interpretation of the Agreement. It is important, however, to ensure that there is nothing in the recitals that is inconsistent with the main provisions of the Agreement. The final clause of the recitals typically makes it clear that the binding obligations of the parties are set forth in the main body of the agreement, and not in the recitals.

2.=[Z/paras/s2]

3.Ti=Definitions

3.1.sec=The definition clause is the dictionary for the Agreement. The parties to the Agreement can define terms like "licensed patents", "use" and "royalty" to make clear the rights and obligations of the Agreement. The definitions can be used to simplify drafting; for example, if a series or family of patents is being licensed, the full list can be scheduled and then captured by the defined term “licensed patents”.

3.2.sec=Definitions can also be used to limit the scope of the license; a definition of “field” may clearly set out the limits on the licensee’s rights. Similarly, the definition of “revenue” or “net revenue” may impact the amounts of royalties to be paid to the licensor. It is important to note that if a word or terms are defined in the Agreement, the defined meaning will take precedence over any other common meaning for the word or terms.

3.=[Z/paras/s2]

4.Ti=License Grant

4.sec=The license grant provision is one of the most critical elements of the Agreement. It sets out the scope and extent of the rights granted to the licensee, as well as any limitations on those rights.

5.Ti=Compensation

5.sec=The provisions dealing with compensation set forth the consideration that the licensee is expected to pay to the licensor in exchange for the license rights granted to it. The compensation provisions of the Agreement may deal with the amount of compensation owing to the licensor, the timing and frequency of payments, liability for taxes and often include details on any reports that the licensee must provide to the licensor with payments.

6.Ti=Obligations of the Parties

6.sec=Depending on the type and complexity of the Agreement, each of the licensee and licensor may have specific obligations that must be fulfilled during the term of the Agreement and even beyond the expiry or termination of the Agreement. These obligations may range from positive obligations such as a duty to report infringement, to negative obligations such as a duty not to compete with the licensor. It is imperative that the obligations of the parties be clear and unambiguous; if they are too vague, it may make it difficult for a party to terminate the Agreement without liability for a failure of one party to fulfil its obligations.

7.Ti=Term and Termination

7.sec=As with any type of commercial agreement, a license agreement should have both a defined term and provisions outlining when a party may terminate the agreement, and for what reason. It is also recommended to deal with the effect of termination in advance, so that each party can plan an exit strategy with full knowledge of the consequences of any termination of the Agreement.

8.Ti=Conflict Resolution

8.sec=Intellectual property disputes can be extremely costly, even if they arise in the context of a license arrangement. Most license agreements include provisions that attempt to regulate the manner in which disputes between the parties may be resolved, in an effort to ensure that costs are contained.

9.Ti=Other Common Clauses

9.sec=The remainder of the skeleton of the Agreement will include other clauses that are common in a license agreement. These may include representations and warranties, provisions that govern the treatment of confidential information, and standard legal “boilerplate”. 

=[Z/ol-a/9]
