Ti=Costs

1.sec=The winning party ordinarily should be awarded all or a substantial portion of its reasonable costs. “Costs” include court filing fees, fees paid to officials such as court stenographers, expenses such as expert-witness fees, and lawyers’ fees.

2.sec=Exceptionally, the court may withhold or limit costs to the winning party when there is clear justification for doing so. The court may limit the award to a proportion that reflects expenditures for matters in genuine dispute and award costs against a winning party who has raised unnecessary issues or been otherwise unreasonably disputatious. The court in making cost decisions may take account of any party’s procedural misconduct in the proceeding.

=[G/Z/ol/s2]

Comment:

P-25A Award of attorneys’ fees is the rule prevailing in most legal systems, although, for example, not in China, Japan, and the United States. In some systems, the amount of costs awarded to the prevailing party is determined by an experienced officer and often is less than the winning party is obligated to pay that party’s lawyer. In some systems, the amount awarded to the prevailing party is governed by fee regulation. A fee-shifting rule is controversial in certain types of litigation but is generally considered appropriate in commercial litigation and is typically stipulated in commercial contracts.

P-25B According to Principle 25.2, exceptionally the court may decline to award any costs to a winning party, or award only part of the costs, or may calculate costs more generously or more severely than it otherwise would. The exceptional character of Principle 25.2 requires the judge to give reasons for the decision. See also Principle 24.3.

