Exhibit C. Example of a Power Purchase Agreement

Contract No. 01PB-_____

_________, 2002

Ti=POWER PURCHASE AGREEMENT

Executed by the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY acting by and through the BONNEVILLE POWER ADMINISTRATION

and

 (__________ Wind Project)

Index to Sections


This.00.sec=This POWER PURCHASE AGREEMENT (this “Agreement”) is executed by and between [SELLER] (“Seller”), and the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY, acting by and through the BONNEVILLE POWER ADMINISTRATION (“BPA”). Both Seller and BPA are sometimes referred to herein individually as “Party” and collectively as “Parties.”

This.1.sec=WHEREAS, BPA is authorized by Federal law, including the Pacific Northwest Electric Power Planning and Conservation Act (Public Law 96-501, the “Northwest Power Act”) and other applicable laws, to acquire sufficient capacity and energy (where “power” may herein refer to either or both terms) from power production facilities, including wind powered production facilities, to meet the electric power requirements placed on BPA by its regional customers.

This.2.sec=WHEREAS Seller desires to construct, own, and operate a wind powered electric generating plant to be located _________________.

This.3.sec=WHEREAS, Seller desires to sell to BPA [all or a portion] of the Energy Output generated by the Facility (as defined below), and BPA desires to buy the same from Seller.

This.4.sec=WHEREAS, BPA’s obligation hereunder is not, nor shall it be construed to be, a general obligation of the United States, nor is it intended to be or is it secured by the full faith and credit of the United States.

This.00.sec=NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants herein contained, the sufficiency and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties agree to the following:

This.=[Z/ol-none/s4]

1.=[Wx/gov/bpa/power/wind/PPA/Sec/Definitions_0.md]

2.=[Wx/gov/bpa/power/wind/PPA/Sec/Term_0.md]

3.Ti=Exhibits

3.sec=The exhibits listed in the Table of Contents are incorporated into this Agreement by reference.

4.=[Wx/gov/bpa/power/wind/PPA/Sec/FacilityDescription_0.md]

5.=[Wx/gov/bpa/power/wind/PPA/Sec/InterconnectionFacilitiesAndMetering_0.md]

6.=[Wx/gov/bpa/power/wind/PPA/Sec/ObligationToSellAndPurchase_0.md]

7.=[Wx/gov/bpa/power/wind/PPA/Sec/PaymentForEnergyOutput_0.md]

8.=[Wx/gov/bpa/power/wind/PPA/Sec/BillingAndPayment_0.md]

9.=[Wx/gov/bpa/power/wind/PPA/Sec/OperationsAndMaintenance_0.md]

10.=[Wx/gov/bpa/power/wind/PPA/Sec/DefaultAndTermination_0.md]

=[Z/ol/10]


11. Termination for Convenience

(a) Termination by BPA for Convenience

BPA may provide notice of its intent to terminate this Agreement for convenience either during the period between the execution of this Agreement and the date that Seller provides written notice to BPA, in the form of Exhibit B, that the Facility is ready for construction (the “Initial Period”), or after the Facility has achieved Commercial Operation (the “Operation Period”).

(1) During the Initial Period, BPA must provide its notice of intent to terminate this Agreement for convenience at least thirty (30) days prior to the actual date of termination.

(2) During the Operation Period, BPA shall provide its notice of intent to terminate this Agreement for convenience at least ninety (90) days prior to the actual date of termination.

(3) If a termination occurs under this Section 11(a), then BPA shall pay to Seller in the case of termination under clause (1) or (2), above, [an amount to be negotiated].

(b) Termination Under Section 11(a)

Termination of this Agreement pursuant to Section 11(a) shall relieve the Parties of all further obligations under this Agreement upon full and complete payment by BPA of all amounts due and owing pursuant to this Section 11 and Exhibit D.

12. Contract Administration and Notices

(a) Notices

All notices, demands or other communications required from or given by a Party pursuant to this Agreement shall be provided to the other Party in accordance with the requirements set forth in this section. All notices, demands or other communications required hereunder shall be given or made in writing and shall be delivered personally, sent by facsimile (fax), sent by a courier service, or mailed by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid to the parties at the following addresses, or at such other address as may be designated by notice given pursuant hereto:

If to Seller: [Address]

Attn: _________________

Phone: _________________

Fax: _________________

If to BPA: Bonneville Power Administration

905 N.E. 11th Street (97232)

P.O. Box 3621

Portland, OR 97208-3621

Attn: Wind Project Manager – PGC-6

Contract Generating Resources

Phone: 503-230-4386

Fax: 503-230-4973

Notices given by hand, telegraphically transmitted, or sent by telecopy shall be deemed given the day so given, transmitted or sent. Notices mailed or sent by a courier service as provided herein shall be deemed given on the third Business Day following the date so mailed or on the date of actual receipt, whichever is earlier.

(b) Representative for Notice

Each Party shall maintain a designated representative to receive notices. Such representative may, at the option of each Party, be the same person as that Party’s representative or alternate representative on the Operating Committee, or a different person. Either Party may, by written notice to the other, pursuant to Section 12(a) above, change the representative or the address to which such notices and communications are to be sent.

(c) Authority of Representatives

The Parties’ representatives designated in Section 12(b) above shall have authority to act for their respective principals in all technical matters relating to performance of this Agreement and to attempt to resolve disputes or potential disputes. However, they shall not have the authority to amend or modify any provision of this Agreement.

(d) Operating Records

Seller and BPA shall each keep complete and accurate records and all other data required by each of them for the purposes of proper administration of this Agreement, including such records as may be required by state or Federal regulatory authorities.

(e) Billing and Payment Records

To facilitate payment and verification, Seller and BPA shall keep all books and records necessary for billing and payments in accordance with the provisions of Section 7 and grant the other Party reasonable access to those records.

(f) Examination of Records

Seller and BPA may examine the billing and operating records and data kept by the other relating to transactions under, and administration of, this Agreement at any time during the period the records are required to be maintained, upon request and during normal business hours.

13. Dispute Resolution

(a) The Parties shall make a good faith effort to negotiate a resolution of disputes before initiating litigation. During a contract dispute or contract issue between the Parties arising out of this Agreement, the Parties shall continue performance under this Agreement pending resolution of the dispute, unless to do so would be impossible or impracticable. Seller reserves the right to seek judicial resolution of any dispute arising under this Agreement that is not subject to arbitration under this Section 13.

(b) Final actions subject to section 9(e) of the Northwest Power Act are not subject to binding arbitration and shall remain within the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. Any dispute regarding any rights of the Parties under any BPA policy, including the implementation of such policy, shall not be subject to arbitration under this Agreement. Seller reserves the right to seek judicial resolution of any dispute arising under this Agreement that is not subject to arbitration under this Section 13. For purposes of this Section 13, BPA policy means any written document adopted by BPA as a final action in a decision record or record of decision that establishes a policy of general application, or makes a determination under an applicable statute. If either Party asserts that a dispute is excluded from arbitration under this Section 13, either Party may apply to the Federal court having jurisdiction for an order determining whether such dispute is subject to arbitration under this Section 13.

(c) Any contract dispute or contract issue between the Parties arising out of this Agreement, except for disputes that are excluded through Section 13(a) above, shall be subject to binding arbitration. The Parties shall make a good faith effort to resolve such disputes before initiating arbitration proceedings. During arbitration, the Parties shall continue performance under this Agreement pending resolution of the dispute, unless to do so would be impossible or impracticable.

(d) Any arbitration shall take place in Portland, Oregon, unless the Parties agree otherwise. The CPR Institute for Dispute Resolution’s arbitration procedures for commercial arbitration, Non-Administered Arbitration Rules (CPR Rules), shall be used for each dispute; provided, however, that: (1) the Parties shall have the discovery rights provided in the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure unless the Parties agree otherwise; and (2) for claims of $1 million or more, each arbitration shall be conducted by a panel of three neutral arbitrators. The Parties shall select the arbitrators from a list containing the names of 15 qualified individuals supplied by the CPR Institute for Dispute Resolution. If the Parties cannot agree upon three arbitrators on the list within 20 Business Days, the Parties shall take turns striking names from the list of proposed arbitrators. The Party initiating the arbitration shall take the first strike. This process shall be repeated until three arbitrators remain on the list, and those individuals shall be designated as the arbitrators. For disputes involving less than $1 million, a single neutral arbitrator shall be selected consistent with section 6 of the CPR Rules.

(e) Except for arbitration awards, which declare the rights and duties of the Parties under this Agreement, the payment of monies shall be the exclusive remedy available in any arbitration proceeding. Under no circumstances shall specific performance be an available remedy against BPA. The arbitration award shall be final and binding on both Parties, except that either Party may seek judicial review based upon any of the grounds referred to in the Federal Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. §1-16 (1988). Judgment upon the award rendered by the arbitrators may be entered by any court having jurisdiction thereof.

(f) Each Party shall be responsible for its own costs of arbitration, including legal fees. The arbitrators may apportion all other costs of arbitration between the Parties in such manner as they deem reasonable taking into account the circumstances of the case, the conduct of the Parties during the proceeding, and the result of the arbitration.

14. Force Majeure

(a) Definition of Force Majeure

The term “Force Majeure,” as used in this Agreement, means causes or events beyond the reasonable control of, and without the fault or negligence of the party claiming Force Majeure, including, without limitation, acts of God, sudden actions of the elements such as floods, earthquakes, hurricanes, wind speeds in excess of safe working limits, or tornadoes; sabotage; vandalism beyond that which could reasonably be prevented by Seller; terrorism; war; riots; fire; explosion; severe cold or hot weather or snow or other extreme or severe weather conditions; blockage, insurrection, strike, slow down, or labor disruptions (even if such difficulties could be resolved by conceding to the demands of a labor group); and requirements, actions or failures to act by Transmission System Operator, but only if such requirements, actions or failures to act prevent or delay performance; the adoption or change in any rule or regulation or judicial decision lawfully imposed by Federal, state, or local government bodies; inability, despite due diligence, to obtain required licenses, permits, or approvals for the construction and operation of the Facility under the terms of this Agreement; and the mechanical or equipment breakdown of the Grid to the extent not caused by the party claiming the Force Majeure. The term “Force Majeure” does not include any full or partial curtailment in the electric output of the Facility that is caused by or arises from the act or acts of any third party, including, without limitation, any vendor, materialman, customer, or supplier of Seller, unless such act or acts is or are itself or themselves excused by reason of Force Majeure. The term “Force Majeure” does not include any full or partial curtailment in the electric output of the Facility that is caused by or arises from a mechanical or equipment breakdown of the Facility, or fires, explosions, or other mishap or events or conditions attributable to normal wear and tear or flaws related to the Facility, unless caused by a Force Majeure event specifically listed in the first sentence of this Section 14(a).

(b) Applicability of Force Majeure

Neither Party shall be responsible or liable for any delay or failure in its performance under this Agreement due to conditions or events of Force Majeure (except that any and all obligations to pay money shall not be delayed or excused by conditions or events of Force Majeure), provided that:

(1) the non-performing Party gives the other Party prompt written notice describing the particulars of the occurrence of the Force Majeure;

(2) the suspension of performance is of no greater scope and of no longer duration than is required by the Force Majeure;

(3) the non-performing Party proceeds with reasonable diligence to remedy its inability to perform and provides weekly progress reports to the other Party describing actions taken to end the Force Majeure; and

(4) the non-performing Party shall provide written notice of its ability to resume performance of its obligations under this Agreement.

(c) Limitations on Effect of Force Majeure

In no event will any delay or failure of performance caused by any conditions or events of Force Majeure extend this Agreement beyond its stated term. In the event of any delay or failure of performance caused by conditions or events of Force Majeure, which would otherwise constitute an Event of Default pursuant to Section 10, the cure provisions of Section 10 shall not apply and such delay or failure of performance, if not previously cured, shall be extended day-for-day by the event of Force Majeure; provided that such delay or failure shall become an Event of Default one (1) year from the date of notice provided for in Section 10. The other Party may, at any time following the end of such one-year period, terminate this Agreement upon written notice to the affected Party, without further obligation by the terminating Party except as to costs and unpaid balances incurred prior to the effective date of such termination. The other Party may, but shall not be obligated to, extend such one year period, for such additional time as it, at its sole discretion, deems appropriate, if the affected Party is exercising due diligence in its efforts to cure the conditions or events of Force Majeure.

(d) Delays Attributable to BPA

Seller shall be excused from delays in meeting performance deadlines under this Agreement, on a day-for-day basis, for any delays attributable to BPA, including, without limitation, delays in BPA obtaining any required permits, consents, or approvals and agreements, including, without limitation, the Delivery Arrangements Agreement, from governmental authorities or third parties required for BPA to perform its obligations under this Agreement. Seller shall provide BPA with timely written notice that a delay allegedly attributable to BPA has occurred or is expected to occur. The notice shall specify the length of any extension to a performance deadline to which Seller feels entitled.

15. Representations and Warranties

(a) Seller’s Representations and Warranties

Seller hereby represents and warrants that as of the date hereof:

(1) Seller is an [which state] corporation, duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of ______, and is qualified to perform its obligations under this Agreement in [state where facility is located] and in each other jurisdiction where the failure to so qualify would have a material adverse effect upon the business or financial condition of Seller; and Seller has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business, to own its properties, and to execute, deliver, and perform its obligations under this Agreement.

(2) The execution, delivery, and performance of its obligations under this Agreement by Seller have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, and do not and will not:

(i) require any consent or approval of Seller’s members other than that which has been obtained and is in full force and effect;

(ii) violate any provision of law, rule, regulation, order, writ, judgment, injunction, decree, determination, or award currently in effect having applicability to Seller or violate any provision in any charter documents of Seller, the violation of which could have a material adverse effect on the ability of Seller to perform its obligations under this Agreement;

(iii) result in a breach or constitute a default under Seller’s charter documents, or under any agreement relating to the management or affairs of Seller or any indenture or loan or credit agreement, or any other agreement, lease, or instrument to which Seller is a party or by which Seller or its properties or assets may be bound or affected, the breach or default of which could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the ability of Seller to perform its obligations under this Agreement; or

(iv) result in, or require the creation or imposition of any mortgage, deed of trust, pledge, lien, security interest, or other charge or encumbrance of any nature (other than as may be contemplated by this Agreement) upon or with respect to any of the assets or properties of Seller now owned or hereafter acquired, the creation or imposition of which could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the ability of Seller to perform its obligation under this Agreement.

(3) This Agreement is a valid and binding obligation of Seller.

(4) The execution and performance of this Agreement will not conflict with or constitute a breach or default under any contract or agreement of any kind to which Seller is a party or any judgment, order, statute, or regulation that is applicable to Seller or the Facility.

(5) To its best knowledge, all approvals, authorizations, consents, or other action required by any governmental authority to authorize Seller’s execution, delivery, and performance under this Agreement have been duly obtained and are in full force and effect.

(b) BPA’s Representations and Warranties

BPA hereby represents and warrants the following:

(1) BPA is authorized by Federal law, including the Northwest Power Act and other applicable laws, to dispose of electric power generated at various Federal hydroelectric projects in the Pacific Northwest or acquired from other resources, including wind energy facilities.

(2) The execution and performance of BPA’s obligations under this Agreement has been duly authorized by all necessary agency action, and does not and will not:

(i) require any further agency consent or approval;

(ii) to the knowledge of BPA, violate any provision of Federal law, rule, regulation, order, writ, judgment, injunction, decree, determination, or award currently in effect having applicability to BPA, or conflict with or constitute a breach or default under any contract or agreement of any kind to which BPA is a party, the violation, conflict, or breach or default of which could have a material adverse effect on the ability of BPA to perform its obligations under this Agreement. (3) This Agreement is a valid and binding obligation of BPA.

16. Insurance and Indemnity

(a) Evidence of Insurance

(1) During the construction of the Facility, Seller shall, at Seller’s expense, maintain or cause to be maintained property damage insurance covering all wind-electric generation facilities at the Facility on an “all-risk” basis, for the full replacement value of such facilities.

(2) Commencing on the Completion Date, Seller shall, at Seller’s expense, maintain or cause to be maintained appropriate property and casualty loss insurance for the value of the Facility, and other appropriate insurance for the Facility in accordance with prudent wind industry practice, including as follows:

(i) Commercial General Liability covering bodily injury and property damage, boiler and machinery, products/completed operations, contractual and personal injury liability, with limits not less than $5,000,000 combined single limit per occurrence;

(ii) All-risk property insurance including earthquake, tornado, and flood, subject to appropriate sublimits, covering physical loss or damage to all real and personal property located at the Facility.

(3) The insurance shall acknowledge BPA, its officers, agents, employees, and successors in interest as additional insureds.

(4) The insurance shall not affect Seller’s liability under the indemnity provisions of this Agreement and shall not be terminated, expire nor be materially altered except on thirty (30) days prior written notice to BPA and with BPA’s written concurrence. Such concurrence shall not be unreasonably withheld.

(5) As evidence that policies do in fact provide the required coverages and limits of insurance and are in full force and effect, Seller, and/or its contractor or representative, shall, at least fourteen (14) days prior to the Completion Date, furnish to BPA certificates of insurance.

(b) Limitation on Liability

Neither BPA nor Seller (“First Party”) shall be liable, whether in warranty, tort or strict liability, to the other Party (“Second Party”) for any injury or death to any person, or for any loss or damage to any property, caused by or arising out of any electric disturbance of the First Party’s electric system, whether or not such electric disturbance resulted from the First Party’s negligent act or omission. Each Second Party shall release the First Party from, and shall indemnify and hold harmless the First Party from, any such liability. As used in this Section, (1) the term “Party” means, in addition to such Party itself, its agents, directors, officers, contractors and employees; (2) the term “damage” means all damage, including consequential damage; and (3) the term “persons” means any person, including those not connected with either Party to this Agreement.

17. Regulatory Jurisdiction and Compliance

(a) Governmental Jurisdiction and Regulatory Compliance

Each party shall at all times comply with all applicable laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations applicable to it. As applicable, each party shall give all required notices, shall procure and maintain all necessary governmental permits, licenses, and inspections necessary for performance of this Agreement, and shall pay its respective charges and fees in connection therewith.

(b) Provision of Support

Seller shall make available, upon BPA’s reasonable request, any personnel of Seller and any records relating to the Facility to the extent that BPA requires the same in order to fulfill any regulatory reporting requirements, or to assist BPA in litigation, including, but not limited to, proceedings before utility regulatory commissions. BPA shall make available, upon Seller’s reasonable request, any personnel of BPA and any records relating to the Facility to the extent that Seller requires the same in order to fulfill any regulatory reporting requirements, or to assist Seller in litigation, including, but not limited to, proceedings before utility regulatory commissions.

18. Assignment and Other Transfer Restrictions

(a) No Assignment Without Consent

This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of, or may be performed by, the successors and assigns of the Parties. No Party may assign or otherwise transfer its rights or obligations under this Agreement unless it has obtained the prior written consent of the other Party. Seller may assign and/or delegate, or transfer or permit the transfer of all or any portion of its interests in the Facility or this Agreement, to any person or entity after obtaining the prior written consent of BPA, which shall not be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned; provided that such other person or entity assumes, or is otherwise bound to perform, all of Seller’s obligations under this Agreement. No assignment, delegation, pledge, or transfer shall relieve or release Seller to any extent of any of its pre-transfer obligations under this Agreement. No assignment, pledge, or other transfer of this Agreement by any Party shall operate to release the assignor, pledgor, or transferor from any of its obligations under this Agreement unless consent to the release, which shall not be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned, is given in writing by the other Party.

19. Confidential Information

(a) Availability

The Parties have and will develop certain information, processes, know-how, techniques and procedures concerning the Facility (collectively, “Information”) which they consider confidential and proprietary. Notwithstanding the confidential and proprietary nature of such Information, BPA and Seller (each, the “Disclosing Party”) may make this Information available to the other (each, a “Receiving Party”) subject to the provisions of this section.

(b) Designation

At the time of furnishing or making available for inspection such confidential or proprietary Information, the Disclosing Party shall expressly designate by label, stamp, or oral communication (to be confirmed in writing) the Information which it considers to be confidential and/or proprietary.

(c) Obligations

The Receiving Party’s obligations with respect to the use or disclosure of such Information thereafter will be as set forth in this section.

(d) Conditions and Restrictions

Upon receiving or learning of Information designated as confidential and/or proprietary by the Disclosing Party, the Receiving Party shall:

(1) treat such Information as confidential and use reasonable care not to divulge such Information to any third party except as required by law, subject to the restrictions set forth below;

(2) restrict access to such Information to employees (and others who agree to be bound by this Agreement) whose access is reasonably necessary in developing the Facility and for the purposes of this Agreement;

(3) use such Information solely for the purpose of developing the Facility and for the purposes of this Agreement; and

(4) upon the termination of this Agreement, destroy or return any such Information in written or other tangible form and any copies thereof, if asked to do so in writing by the Disclosing Party.

(e) Exceptions

The restrictions in this section do not apply to:

(1) the contents of this Agreement, which becomes a public document upon execution;

(2) information which is, or becomes, publicly known or available otherwise than through the action of the Receiving Party in violation of this Agreement;

(3) information which is in the possession of the Receiving Party prior to receipt from the Disclosing Party or is independently developed by the Receiving Party; provided that the person or persons developing same have not had access to such Information; or

(4) information which is, in the reasonable written opinion of counsel to the Receiving Party, required to be disclosed pursuant to applicable law or regulation (including any Freedom of Information Act request); provided, however, that the Receiving Party, prior to such disclosure, shall provide reasonable advance notice to the Disclosing Party of the time and scope of the intended disclosure in order to permit the Disclosing Party opportunity to obtain a protective order or otherwise seek to prevent or limit the scope or otherwise impose conditions upon such disclosure.

(f) Term of Obligations

The obligations of the Parties under this section shall remain in full force and effect for two (2) years following the termination of this Agreement.

20.=[Wx/gov/bpa/power/wind/PPA/Sec/Miscellaneous_0.md]

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement.

[SELLER] UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Department of Energy

Bonneville Power Administration

By: By: __________________________

Gregory K. Delwiche

[Title] Vice President, Generation Supply

Contract No. 01PB-_____

_________ Wind Project

Example of Power Purchase Agreement 1

EXHIBIT A

Facility Description and Map

The Facility is known as the _______ Wind Project and is located __________.

The Facility consists of [number, manufacturer, and model] wind turbines. Each wind turbine is connected to the next by a ___-kV underground collector system. Wind turbines are grouped in “strings” of _ to ___ turbines, each spaced approximately ___ feet from the next.

[Further describe the Facility]

[Describe Interconnection Facilities]

The following site map indicates the location and layout of the BPA Wind Turbines. The following diagram shows the location of Metering Devices and other equipment installed at the Facility Substation.

[PLACEHOLDER PAGE FOR MAP]

Contract No. 01PB-_____

_________ Wind Project

Example of Power Purchase Agreement 3

[PLACEHOLDER PAGE FOR SUBSTATION DIAGRAM]

Contract No. 01PB-_____

_________ Wind Project

Example of Power Purchase Agreement 1

EXHIBIT B

Form of Notice

Contract No. 01PB-_____

_________ Wind Project

Example of Power Purchase Agreement 1

EXHIBIT C

Form of Invoice

Contract No. 01PB-_____

_________ Wind Project

Example of Power Purchase Agreement 1

EXHIBIT D

Termination Payment Schedule
