Ti=Modelling the EU Economy as an Ecosystem of Contracts - Deliverable - Major - List

0.sec=The major deliverable will first map relevant data sources and data formats that could potentially enable the modelling of the EU economy as an ecosystem of (legally enforceable) contractual relationships.<br>We expect the study to address the following key questions:

1.sec=What are the core concepts in the current modelling approach of the EU economy? What types of data are collected and which measurement concepts exist within this approach?

2.sec=How did these concepts relate to the historical development of economic trade, the structure of the EU (or U.S.,. or international, as applicable) economy?

3.sec=How did the internet and the World Wide Web standard influence the structure of economic trade? What are the consequences for the adequacy of measuring and modelling economic trade?

4.sec=What kind of data has become available that had not been anticipated in the previous modelling
approach?

5.sec=What are the opportunities and challenges attached to these new data formats, including liability issues specific to such data?

6.sec=Which existing data sources, data collection methods, data methodologies are available to model the EU economy as an ecosystem of (legally enforceable) contractual relationships?

7.sec=Where are concepts and/or methodologies missing to achieve a satisfactory modelling result?

8.sec=Is there a need to identify and authorize new actors to develop and maintain such a methodology?

00.sec=At the final stage, we anticipate a report, which will encompass the aforementioned elements. The contractor will cooperate closely with the European Commission.

=[G/Z/ol/s8]
