Ti=Operational Assurances 

1.Ti=Physical and Environmental Security 

1.1.sec=A data processor that stores or processes genomic or health-related data must provide physical and environmental safeguards to protect those data in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, institutional policies, and individual consents. 

1.2.sec=Each data processor who uses a third party to store or process genomic or health-related data must ensure that business agreements include an obligation to provide physical and environmental data protection. 

1.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

2.Ti=Service Assurances 

2.0.sec=All data processors must implement appropriate defense-in-depth architectural assurances that enable them to provide a high level of service expectations, including: 

2.1.sec=<b>Availability</b> – the service should be able to perform its functions over a specified period of time, generally expressed as the proportion of time that a service is actually available within an agreed-upon time period. Availability is ensured through architectural and design features, and operational procedures that enhance reliability, maintainability, serviceability, resiliency, and security safeguards. 

2.2.sec=<b>Scalability (or elasticity)</b> – genomic and health-related data stores should be capable of expanding as the volume of data continues to grow, while protecting the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of its services. 

2.3.sec=<b>Infrastructure security</b> – security features and processes provided as part of a service should ensure that their networks, operating systems, applications, and database management systems isolate software processes and datasets to prevent interference and side-channel attacks. A “least privileges” approach should be used to harden execution environments. 

2.4.sec=<b>Code security</b> - software providers should make a best effort to ensure that their software is free of malicious code and that secrets are never in the code. Code should be checked for downstream library vulnerability (“supply chain attack”). Code should have an approval process before promotion (“protected branches”) and should be signed. 

2.5.sec=<b>Data durability</b> – all genomic and health-related data, critical data or data deemed vulnerable should be copied to a secure accessible secondary location and preserved in case the original data are corrupted, deleted, lost, or altered in any way. Backups can be ensured through regular copying of full databases and incremental data backup jobs of modified or newly created data. 

2.6.sec=<b>Disaster recovery</b> – the ability to restore the availability and accessibility of genomic and health-related data or data deemed critical in a timely manner should, for example, a natural disaster or security breach occur. 

2.7.sec=<b>Data retention</b> – the period of time that data should be retained is contingent on applicable jurisdictional law and institutional policy. Archived data should be retained for no longer than is necessary before being deleted to minimize the risk of a breach of data. 

2.8.sec=<b>Data destruction</b> – ensure that all information that has reached its end-of-life (as applicable under jurisdictional law) is destroyed safely and permanently to minimize storage and an organization’s risk to a breach of data. 

2.=[G/Z/ol/s8]

3.Ti=Information Security Oversight and Accountability 

3.1.sec=Each data controller must document the privacy and security practices and procedures it uses to make its data and services available within the GA4GH community, consistent with the GA4GH <b>Privacy and Security Policy</b>, and must ensure that its processors make this documentation conveniently available to data subjects. 

3.2.sec=At the request of a data subject whose data are being stored and shared within the GA4GH community, the responsible data controller should provide the data subject information about how and by whom their data are being accessed and used and for what purposes. 

3.3.sec=Each data controller must document the behavioral standards associated with the use of data and services made available to data processors, consistent with GA4GH <b>Privacy and Security Policy</b> and must require data processors to attest to their understanding of, and commitment to adhere to these standards. 

3.4.sec=Data controllers should provide traceability and proof of conduct for all data destroyed, particularly when outsourcing this effort to third parties. 

3.5.sec=Each data processor must document and enforce written operational procedures for protecting the confidentiality and integrity of data, the availability of services, and the privacy of individuals who contribute their personal data. 

3.6.sec=Each data processor should engage an independent third party to conduct penetration testing of its service infrastructure at least annually. Any necessary remediation activity should be conducted as quickly as possible, and subjected to both functional and assurance testing. 

3.7.sec=Each data processor must have documented procedures for monitoring system activities, detecting potential threats and vulnerabilities (vulnerability reporting), and notifying potential security incidents (breach notification). 

3.8.sec=Each data processor, in collaboration with the corresponding data controller, must investigate and resolve security incidents, breaches, and reported threats as quickly as possible so as to minimize potential damage to data subjects, data loss, disruption of data and application services. 

3.9.0.sec=Each operational stakeholder must report any breaches in a way consistent with the <b>GA4GH Breach Response Strategy</b> {FtNt.35.Xnum}. Data controllers, in collaboration with the other operational stakeholders, will also respond to these breaches. In particular: 

3.9.1.sec= - Each operational stakeholder must report to applicable regulatory authorities or identified responsible actors any breaches resulting in the potential disclosure of genomic or health-related data 

3.9.2.sec= - Each operational stakeholder must report to GA4GH any breaches associated with the use of GA4GH standards and breaches that could damage the reputation and trustworthiness of the GA4GH community. 

3.9.3.sec= - Each data processor who experiences or suspects a data breach involving the disclosure of potentially identifiable data must expeditiously report the breach to the data controller responsible for the breached data. 

3.9.4.sec= - Each data controller who experiences, suspects, or receives a report of a data breach involving the disclosure of potentially identifiable data must expeditiously report the breach to the data subjects whose data were breached. 

3.9.5.sec= - Each data controller should work with its data processors to assess risks associated with the storage, use, and transmission of genomic and health-related data, and should contractually require appropriate technical mechanisms and procedures for preventing, detecting, and recovering from data breaches, consistent with the assessed risks. 

3.9.=[G/Z/ol/s5]

3.10.sec=Each GA4GH team that proposes a standard work product must complete an initial security risk-assessment at the start of product development. Prerequisite to approval as a GA4GH standard, the product must undergo a security evaluation that must include a final security risk assessment review and assurance testing, as appropriate. 

3.=[G/Z/ol/s10]

4.Ti=Regulatory and Policy Compliance 

4.1.sec=Each data processor must ensure that data are transmitted, persisted, and protected in compliance with all applicable legal and ethical requirements. 

4.2.sec=Each operational stakeholder must implement protections consistent with this infrastructure, and ensure that contracts with third parties address the business partners’ obligations to implement such protections. 

4.3.sec=Each operational stakeholder must implement appropriate security procedures to ensure compliance with applicable legislative, regulatory, and contractual requirements relating to the use of genomic or health-related data, and personal information. 

4.4.sec=Each operational stakeholder must implement appropriate security procedures to ensure compliance with applicable legislative, regulatory, and contractual requirements relating to intellectual property rights. 

4.5.sec=Each operational stakeholder must implement, and attest to having implemented, security and privacy processes, procedures, and technology to enforce compliance with relevant legislation, regulations, contractual clauses, and the <b>GA4GH Privacy and Security Policy.</b> 

4.6.sec=Operational stakeholders may individually or collectively engage third parties to assess compliance with the GA4GH <b>Data Security Infrastructure</b>, and to evaluate the effectiveness of implemented protections. 

4.=[G/Z/ol/s6]

=[G/Z/ol/4]