
Note=IT2018 Terms and Conditions = http://www.it-ehdot.fi/tutustu-ehtoihin

Doc.Ti=AGREEMENT FOR PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA

1.Ti=OBJECT OF AGREEMENT

1.1.sec=The below defined Customer and Supplier have agreed in accordance with the Terms and Conditions of this Agreement that the Supplier shall process personal data on behalf of the Customer. The Customer acts as the controller and the Supplier acts as the processor of personal data. IT2018 EHK special terms and conditions for the processing of personal data and IT2018 YSE general terms and conditions are applied to this Agreement.

1.2.sec=This Agreement forms a part of the following agreement entered into between the Parties (“The Main Agreement”):
_______________________________________________________________________________

1.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

2.Ti=CONTRACTING PARTIES AND CONTACT PERSONS

2.1.Ti=Customer:

2.1.sec={Customer.Among.US.sec}

2.1.=[G/Z/ol/Base]
_______________________________________________________
					Business identity code: ________________ VAT reg.
Customer’s address:		_______________________________________________________
Customer’s contact person:   _______________________________________________________
	
2.2.Ti=Supplier:

2.2.sec={Supplier.Among.US.sec}

2.2.=[G/Z/ol/Base]
_______________________________________________________
					Business identity code: ________________ VAT reg.
Supplier’s address:		_______________________________________________________
Supplier’s contact person:	_______________________________________________________

2.00.sec=Each Party to this Agreement shall without undue delay inform the other Party in writing of any change in its contact person. The contact person is not authorised to agree on any changes to this Agreement.

2.=[G/Z/ol/2]


3.Ti=NATURE AND PURPOSE OF THE PROCESSING

3.sec=The nature and purpose of the processing of personal data is specified as follows:  {Purpose.sec}


4.Ti=TYPE OF PERSONAL DATA AND CATEGORIES OF DATA SUBJECTS

4.Alt1.sec=The type of personal data and category(ies) of data subjects have been described in annex number {TypeOfData.Annex.#}.

4.Alt2.0.sec=The type of personal data and category(ies) of data subjects are specified as follows:

4.Alt2.1.sec=_______________________________________

4.Alt2.2.sec=_______________________________________

4.2.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

4.=[G/Z/Alt/2]

5.Ti=APPLICABLE DATA SECURITY MEASURES

5.Alt1.sec=Data security has been agreed in annex number {DataSecurity.Annex.#}.

5.Alt2.sec=Backup procedures have been agreed in annex number {BackupProcedures.Annex.#}.

5.Alt3.sec=Backup procedures have been agreed in accordance with the IT2018 Terms and Conditions annexed to this Agreement.

5.=[G/Z/Alt/3]

6.Ti=PRICES 

6.Alt1.sec=The price of the processing of personal data has been specified in the Main Agreement.

6.Alt2.sec=The price of the processing of personal data has been specified in annex number {Price.Annex.#}.

6.Alt3.sec=There is no pricing regarding  the processing of personal data and no payments regarding processing will be collected.

6.=[G/Z/Alt/3]

7.Ti=DETAILED RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF CUSTOMER AS DATA CONTROLLER

7.Alt1.sec=The detailed rights and obligations of the customer as a data controller have been specified in annex number {DataController.Annex.#}.

7.Alt2.0.sec=The detailed rights and obligations of the customer as a data controller have been specified as follows:

7.Alt2.1.sec=_______________________________________

7.Alt2.2.sec=_______________________________________

7.Alt2.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

7.=[G/Z/Alt/2]


8.Ti=SUBJECT-MATTER AND DURATION OF PROCESSING

8.Alt1.sec=The subject-matter and duration of the processing of personal data have been specified in annex number {Processing.Annex.#}

8.Alt2.0.sec=The subject-matter and duration of the processing of personal data have been specified as follows:

8.Alt2.1.sec=_______________________________________

8.Alt2.2.sec=_______________________________________

8.Alt2.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

8.=[G/Z/Alt/2]


9.Ti=LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES AND LIMITATION OF LIABILITY

9.Alt1.sec=Liability for damages of the processing of personal data has been agreed in annex number {Liability.Annex.#}.

9.Alt2.sec=Liability for damages of the processing of personal data has been specified in the IT2018 EHK  Special Terms and Conditions for the Processing of Personal Data in Section 9.
 
9.Alt3.0.sec=Liability for damages of the processing of personal data has been specified as follows:

9.Alt3.1.sec=_______________________________________

9.Alt3.2.sec=_______________________________________

9.Alt3.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

9.=[G/Z/Alt/3]

10.Ti=OTHER TERMS AND CONDITIONS

10.1.sec=_______________________________________________________________________________

10.2.sec=_______________________________________________________________________________


10.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

11.Ti= ANNEXES OF AGREEMENT AND ORDER OF PRIORITY

11.1.0.sec=The following annexes form an integral part of this Agreement (please number the annexes):

11.1.1.sec=_______________________________________________________________________________

11.1.2.sec=_______________________________________________________________________________

11.1.=[G/Z/ol/s2]


11.2.0.sec=The order of priority of documents relating to this Agreement is as follows:

11.2.1.sec=This Agreement.

11.2.2.sec=Annexes to this Agreement other than the IT2018 Terms and Conditions. In case of discrepancy between these annexes, the annex with a smaller number shall prevail.

11.2.3.sec=The IT2018 EHK Special Terms and Conditions for the Processing of Personal Data annexed to this Agreement

11.2.4.sec=The Main Agreement 

11.2.5.sec=The special terms and conditions annexes of the IT2018 Terms and Conditions annexed to the Main Agreement. 

11.2.6.sec=IT2018 YSE General Terms and Conditions.

11.2.=[G/Z/ol/s6]

11.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

12.Ti=COPIES AND SIGNATURES

12.sec=This Agreement has been executed in two original copies, one for each Party.


=[G/Agt-Form-CmA/US/0.md]

=[G/Z/ol/12]
