Doc.Ti=MODEL AGREEMENT FOR SHARING THE DATA AND BENEFITS OF PUBLIC HEALTH SURVEILLANCE 

This.sec=[NAME] (“Data Provider”) and [NAME] (“Data Recipient”) hereby enter into this Agreement for Sharing the Data and Benefits of Public Health Surveillance (“Agreement”). 

1.Ti=Article 1. Definitions

1.1.sec=“Agreement” means this Agreement on Sharing the Data and Benefits of Public Health Surveillance, including all Annexes.

1.2.sec=“Data Provider” means the Party that has collected, compiled, curated and/or stored the data and provides them for use.

1.3.sec=“Data Recipient” means the Party that receives the data for use.

1.4.sec=“Parties” means, collectively, the Data Provider and the Data Recipient.

1.5.sec=“Party” means, individually, the Data Provider or the Data Recipient.

1.6.sec=“Activity” means the sharing of public health surveillance data described in an Initiating Public Health Surveillance Data Sharing Form under Annex A of the Agreement.

1.=[G/Z/ol-a/s6]

2.Ti=Article 2. Purpose and Principles of the Agreement

2.1.Ti=Purpose

2.1.sec=The Parties recognize that generating and sharing public health surveillance data are vital to domestic and international efforts to prevent health threats, protect people from such threats, and respond when such threats harm individuals and populations. The Parties believe that establishing a formal arrangement for the sharing of public health surveillance data and benefits supports these objectives. The Parties intend for this Agreement to guide the sharing of public health surveillance data and benefits between them in order to strengthen the contributions surveillance makes to improving and protecting public health.

2.2.Ti=Principles

2.2.0.sec=Through this Agreement, the Parties create and will implement shared rules and cooperative mechanisms that are:

2.2.1.sec=Legitimate in being justified on public health grounds, properly authorized by the Parties, and compatible with applicable laws and ethical principles;

2.2.2.sec=Effective in facilitating the timely sharing of quality public health surveillance data in interoperable formats;

2.2.3.sec=Transparent in identifying the objectives of sharing public health surveillance data and the responsibilities of the Parties in undertaking such sharing;

2.2.4.sec=Sustainable in promoting cooperation over the course of public health surveillance data sharing efforts, including cooperation on challenges that arise during such efforts;

2.2.5.sec=Protective of privacy interests implicated by the collection, sharing, and analysis of public health surveillance data; and

2.2.6.sec=Equitable in ensuring that benefits related to sharing public health surveillance data are accessible to the communities from which the public health surveillance data originated.

2.2.00.sec=These principles shall inform the interpretation and implementation of the Agreement, including public health surveillance data and benefits sharing activities conducted under it, the resolution of disputes that may arise, and any decision to terminate the Agreement.

2.2.=[G/Z/ol-a/s6]

2.=[G/Z/ol/2]

3.Ti=Article 3. The Agreement and Public Health Surveillance Data Sharing Activities

3.1.Ti=Application of the Agreement to Public Health Surveillance Data Sharing Activities

3.1.sec=The Parties shall apply this Agreement to each public health surveillance data sharing activity they undertake during the duration of the Agreement (“Activity”). Each Activity shall be comprehensively described using the Initiating Public Health Surveillance Data Sharing Form in Annex A of the Agreement, and the completed Form shall constitute an integral part of the Agreement. Where necessary or appropriate, the Parties may include information about an Activity that is additional to the information required for completing the Initiating Public Health Surveillance Data Sharing Form and agree to incorporate it in the Agreement. 

3.2.Ti=Legal Status of the Agreement and Activities

3.2.sec=For each Activity, the Parties shall indicate in the Initiating Public Health Surveillance Data Sharing Form (Annex A) whether the Agreement shall be a legally binding contract. Where a legally binding contract is desired, Parties should complete the relevant portions of this Form.

3.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

4.Ti=Article 4. Responsibilities in Sharing Public Health Surveillance Data

4.1.Ti=Data Management Plan

4.1.0.sec=For each Activity, the Parties shall develop and implement a plan to guide the collection, transfer, storage, and security of public health surveillance data and include the plan as Annex B of the Agreement (“Data Management Plan”). The Parties shall use the Data Management Plan to:

4.1.1.sec=Collect and share high quality data for the public health need addressed by an Activity;

4.1.2.sec=Achieve interoperability between data systems of the Data Provider and Data Recipient;

4.1.3.sec=Incorporate, as appropriate, internationally accepted standards and best practices on conducting surveillance and sharing public health surveillance data;

4.1.4.sec=Protect data from unauthorized access, manipulation, and use; and

4.1.5.sec=Integrate confidentiality protections into the management of public health surveillance data collected, shared, and analysed in an Activity.

4.1.=[G/Z/ol-a/s5]

4.2.Ti=Responsibilities of the Data Provider

4.2.0.sec=The Data Provider shall be responsible for: 

4.2.1.sec=Ensuring that all aspects of the Agreement and each Activity are compatible with the laws and regulations that apply to the Data Provider;

4.2.2.sec=Obtaining all governmental consents or approvals required by law or regulation to undertake an Activity;

4.2.3.sec=Fulfilling legal and ethical requirements relating to gaining consent from individuals or communities to collect, share, and use public health surveillance data under an Activity; 

4.2.4.sec=Using systems that protect the integrity of the data and prevent unauthorized access; and

4.2.5.sec=Providing the Data Recipient with information about all legal or regulatory requirements of the Data Provider’s jurisdiction that apply to the Data Recipient’s access to and use of public health surveillance data in an Activity. 

4.2.=[G/Z/ol-a/s5]

4.3.Ti=Responsibilities of the Data Recipient

4.3.0.sec=The Data Recipient shall be responsible for:

4.3.1.sec=Ensuring that all aspects of the Agreement and each Activity are compatible with the laws and regulations that apply to the Data Recipient;

4.3.2.sec=Obtaining all governmental consents or approvals required by law or regulation to undertake an Activity;

4.3.3.sec=Complying with all limitations and conditions applied to the sharing and use of public health surveillance data in an Activity as set out in the Agreement and its Annexes, including limitations on transfer of shared data to any third party;

4.3.4.sec=Storing, analysing, and using public health surveillance data in an Activity in a manner that protects the integrity of the data and protects the data from unauthorized access;

4.3.5.sec=Notifying the Data Provider promptly of any instances of non-compliance with the limitations and conditions applied to the sharing and use of public health surveillance data in an Activity as set out in the Agreement and its Annexes

4.3.6.sec=Protecting privacy with respect to public health surveillance data in an Activity, a responsibility that remains in place after the Agreement expires or is terminated until the Data Recipient has deleted and/or destroyed the shared data in their entirety; and

4.3.7.sec=Having the capacity necessary to accomplish the tasks the Data Recipient has to fulfil in an Activity.

4.3.=[G/Z/ol/s7]

4.4.Ti=Common Responsibilities of the Data Provider and Data Recipient.

4.4.1.sec=Neither Party may assign its rights under the Agreement to another entity without the written consent of the other Party, unless explicitly agreed at the outset.

4.4.2.sec=Neither Party may delegate its responsibilities under the Agreement to another entity without the written consent of the other Party, unless explicitly agreed at the outset.

4.4.3.sec=Each Party shall treat as confidential all non-public information it receives from the other Party under this Agreement and shall not disclose such information except as permitted in an Activity, with the written consent of the other Party, or to comply with a mandatory government order issued under applicable law. 

4.4.=[G/Z/ol-a/s3]

4.=[G/Z/ol/4]

5.Ti=Article 5. Intellectual Property Rights Management Plan

5.1.Ti=Establishing an Intellectual Property Rights Management Plan

5.1.sec=For each Activity, the Parties shall develop and implement a plan for the management of intellectual property rights and include the plan as Annex C of the Agreement (“Intellectual Property Rights Management Plan”). This plan shall include the elements described in Articles 5.2 and 5.3 as well as other components needed for an Activity.

5.2.Ti=Identification of Intellectual Property Rights Implicated by an Activity

5.2.sec=The Intellectual Property Rights Management Plan shall identify any intellectual property rights possessed by each Party which will be used in an Activity. Such rights could include, for example, copyright a Party has in software programs or existing datasets intended for use in an Activity. 

5.3.Ti=Assigning Intellectual Property Rights Produced during an Activity

5.3.sec=The Intellectual Property Rights Management Plan shall describe how the Parties will assign and permit exploitation of intellectual property rights an Activity might create. For example, an Activity might generate new datasets, algorithms, software programs, or research papers for which the Parties have or could obtain copyrights. The Intellectual Property Rights Management Plan shall indicate how the Parties will allocate ownership of such intellectual property rights and how the Parties will allow others to use information protected by such rights (e.g. royalty-free licences).

5.=[G/Z/ol/3]

6.Ti=Article 6. Benefit Sharing Plan for Activities

6.1.Ti=Establishing a Benefit Sharing Plan for an Activity

6.1.sec=For each Activity, the Parties shall develop and implement a plan for sharing benefits and include the plan as Annex D of the Agreement (“Benefit Sharing Plan”). The Parties acknowledge that the Benefit Sharing Plan supports the need for the sharing of public health surveillance data to promote equitable results for all participants. 

6.2.Ti=Scope of Benefit Sharing

6.2.0.sec=In preparing a Benefit Sharing Plan, the Parties shall consider a comprehensive range of benefit sharing strategies and specify the duration for all benefit sharing activities. These strategies should attempt to identify benefits for: 

6.2.1.sec=Populations subject to surveillance that generates data for an Activity; 

6.2.2.sec=Those participating in an Activity, including, but not limited to, the Parties; 

6.2.3.sec=Public health surveillance systems—including scientific, technological, and personnel components of such systems—used to collect, analyse, and share public health surveillance data; and

6.2.4.sec=Educational activities that train personnel to undertake public health surveillance.

6.2.=[G/Z/ol-a/s4]

6.=[G/Z/ol/2]

7.Ti=Article 7. General Provisions

7.1.Ti=Resolution of Disputes

7.1.1.sec=When a Party considers a dispute concerning the interpretation or implementation of the Agreement has arisen, it shall notify the other Party in writing and describe why it considers a dispute exists. Within [number] ([#]) calendar days after the date of the notification, the Parties shall begin consultations in a good faith effort to resolve the dispute according to the text of the Agreement and any other applicable legal rule or instrument. Any resolution achieved shall be in writing and approved by both Parties. 

7.1.2.sec=If consultations fail to produce a mutually satisfactory resolution within [number] ([#]) calendar days after the date of the notification of a dispute, the Parties shall seek mediation of the dispute in a mutually agreed manner.

7.1.3.0.sec=If the Parties fail to agree on mediation, or mediation fails to produce a mutually satisfactory outcome within [number] ([#]) calendar days after the date of the notification of a dispute, a Party:

7.1.3.1.sec=May pursue any claims for breach of contract in dispute resolution mechanisms, including arbitration if mutually agreed between the Parties or courts of law, available under the law governing the contract concerning any Activity for which the Agreement is a legally binding contract; or

7.1.3.2.sec=May terminate the Agreement in accordance with Article 7.8.

7.1.3.=[G/Z/ol-i/s2]

7.1.=[G/Z/ol-a/s3]

7.2.Ti=Duration and Extension of the Agreement

7.2.sec=The Agreement remains in effect while any Activity is operational, unless a Party terminates the Agreement under Article 7.8. The Parties may, by mutual consent, extend the duration of the Agreement in writing.

7.3.Ti=Evaluation of the Agreement

7.3.sec=For each Activity, the Parties shall conduct a formal evaluation of the Agreement, including the Benefit Sharing Plan, at the half-way point of the Activity’s duration as stated in the Initiating Public Health Surveillance Data Sharing Form. The Parties may mutually agree to conduct more frequent evaluations of an Activity. 

7.4.Ti=Amendment of the Agreement

7.4.sec=At any time the Agreement is in effect, the Parties may amend it in writing by mutual agreement. 

7.5.Ti=Annexes

7.5.sec=All Annexes are integral parts of the Agreement. The Agreement does not enter into effect until the Parties have considered all sections of the Annexes and completed and shared relevant sections called for under each Annex.

7.6.Ti=Languages

7.6.sec=In the event that the Parties produce versions of the Agreement in more than one language, the Parties shall designate one version of the Agreement as the controlling document for purposes of interpretation and evaluating implementation.

7.7.Ti=Notifications and Communications

7.7.0.sec=Each Party identifies the following contact point for its receipt of all notifications and communications under the Agreement:


7.7.1.sec=FOR THE DATA PROVIDER


[CONTACT INFORMATION]

7.7.2.sec=FOR THE DATA RECIPIENT


[CONTACT INFORMATION]

7.7.=[G/Z/ol-none/s2]

7.8.Ti=Termination of the Agreement

7.8.1.0.sec=At any time the Agreement is in effect, a Party may terminate it:

7.8.1.1.sec=With the consent of the other Party;

7.8.1.2.sec=Under the conditions stipulated in Article 7.1(c) on dispute resolution;

7.8.1.3.sec=Pursuant to the governing law when the Parties have made the Agreement a binding contract for an Activity under Article 3.2.; or

7.8.1.4.sec=Subject to Article 7.8(b), when the other Party does not fulfil its responsibilities under the Agreement in ways that harm an Activity, the purpose of the Agreement, or the principles informing it.

7.8.1.=[G/Z/ol-i/s4]

7.8.2.sec=A Party may notify the other Party that it intends to terminate the Agreement. Unless the other Party responds by issuing a notification of a dispute under Article 7.1, the Agreement terminates [number] ([#]) calendar days after the date of the notice to terminate. 

7.8.3.sec=In deciding whether to terminate the Agreement, each Party shall consider the negative consequences termination might create for domestic and international efforts to prevent, protect against, and respond to threats to health.

7.8.4.sec=Termination of the Agreement shall not affect responsibilities to protect privacy concerning data shared under an Activity, to protect information received from the other Party under Article 4.4(c), the assignment of intellectual property rights made pursuant to Article 5.3, or benefits shared under Article 6, while the Agreement was in effect.

7.8.5.sec=Following termination, any pending activities will be terminated in an orderly way.

7.8.=[G/Z/ol-a/s5]

7.9.Ti=Financial Responsibilities

7.9.sec=Unless modified by a Benefit Sharing Plan, each Party shall bear its own costs for fulfilling its responsibilities under the Agreement.

7.=[G/Z/ol/9]

By.0.sec=IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement through duly authorized representatives on the date set forth below.
 
=[G/Agt-Form-CmA/US/0.md]

=[G/Z/ol/7]



SIGNED on: ______________________
                                     Date


FOR THE DATA PROVIDER:


________________________________
Signature


________________________________
PRINT NAME


________________________________
TITLE OR POSITION	FOR THE DATA RECIPIENT:


________________________________
Signature


________________________________
PRINT NAME


________________________________
TITLE OR POSITION

