Note=These footnotes relate to the SPA/Form/.  In the original Word doc they are real footnotes in the text. We remove them from the doc because they of course have to be removed for actual use of the document.  There are a number of ways that we could present them, this is only one.  Here we present them as a list of all the footnotes, and we intend to put references to the particular section as shown in the fist 6 footnotes below.  Click on the section parameter to see its content. 

SPA.=[G/NVCA/2020/SPA/Form/0.md]

FtNt.1.sec=If only one closing is contemplated, references to “Initial Closing,” “each Closing,” “such Closing” etc. should be modified.  If the transaction has a so-called “simultaneous sign and close” you can update the tense accordingly (“has adopted and filed”). {SPA.Purchase.Sale.sec}

FtNt.2.sec=Sometimes only a Certificate of Amendment is required.{SPA.Purchase.Sale.sec}

FtNt.3.sec=If the Agreement is signed prior to the Closing, this provision gives the parties flexibility to change the closing date as contingencies arise. As a practical matter, however, the Agreement is usually signed on the date of the Closing. This means that, until the Closing, everyone has an opportunity to back out of the deal. {SPA.Purchase.Closing.1.sec}

FtNt.4.sec=Note that the NVCA documents have been updated to provide for the possibility of uncertificated shares as well; alternative language is provided where applicable in all of the model documents. {SPA.Purchase.Closing.2.sec}

FtNt.5.sec=If some or all of the Purchasers will be converting previously issued notes to Shares, consider paying the interest in cash, if the terms of the notes permit this, to avoid last-minute re-computations if the closing is delayed. Note that cancellation of interest in return for stock may be a taxable event in the amount of the interest cancelled. Accordingly, some of the Purchasers may require payment of interest in cash to avoid imputation of income without the corresponding payment of cash to pay the tax. {SPA.Purchase.Closing.2.sec}

FtNt.6.sec=This Section 1.3(a) is intended to allow the Company to hold an Initial Closing once it has reached the minimum required to close, and then continue to raise capital over some agreed upon period on the same terms.    This should not be confused with a “tranched” financing, where the amount committed to the financing round is not invested all at once up front but rather is invested in pre-specified “tranches,” usually dependent on the achievement of agreed upon milestone(s). {SPA.Purchase.AdditionalShares.1.sec}

FtNt.7.sec=The Company may want to limit this approval right to the larger Purchasers. As an alternative, the Agreement may specify that Additional Purchasers must be approved by the Board of Directors, including the directors elected by the Series A Preferred Stockholders.{SPA.Purchase.AdditionalShares.1.sec}

FtNt.8.sec=See Model Indemnification Agreement for discussion of the issue of expanding coverage to include not just VC designee director, but also the fund(s) making the investment. When the fund is also an indemnified party under the indemnification agreement, it may be appropriate for the D&O policy to include an endorsement extending coverage to the fund. {SPA.Def.Indemnification_Agreement.sec}

FtNt.9.sec=In a Series A round at a high-tech start-up, it is likely that the only key employees in addition to management, if any, are those who are responsible for developing the Company’s key intellectual property assets. It may be simpler for these early-stage companies to list the Key Employees by name. In later rounds, it may be appropriate to include others, e.g., important salespeople or consultants and define Key Employees by function (e.g., division director). 

FtNt.10.sec=An important point of negotiation is often whether the Company will represent that a given fact (a) is true or (b) is true to the Company’s knowledge. Alternative (a) requires the Company to bear the entire risk of the truth or falsity of the represented fact, regardless whether the Company knew (or could have known) at the time of the representation whether or not the fact was true. Alternative (b) is preferable from the Company’s standpoint, since it holds the Company responsible only for facts of which it is actually aware.

FtNt.11.sec=Since the prospects of high-tech start-up companies are by definition highly uncertain, the Company may resist the inclusion of the word “prospects” on the grounds that investors in a Series A financing are in the business of shouldering that risk.

FtNt.12.sec=The Voting Agreement contains representations by the Company and Purchasers relating to “bad actor” disqualifying events.  If some or all of the Purchasers are not also entering into the Voting Agreement, consider adding similar representations to the Purchase Agreement in Sections 2 and 3.

FtNt.13.sec=The purpose of the Company’s representations is primarily to create a mechanism to ensure full disclosure about the Company’s organization, financial condition and business to the investors. The Company is required to list any deviations from the representations on a Disclosure Schedule, the preparation and review of which drives the due diligence process on both sides of the deal. For subsequent closings, changes to the Disclosure Schedule are sometimes simply referenced on the Compliance Certificate. The introductory paragraph to this Section 2 may be modified to permit an update to the Disclosure Schedule that would be reasonably acceptable to each of the Purchasers. If this modification is made, a closing condition should be added to indicate that the updated Disclosure Schedule will be delivered and that each of the Purchasers may refuse to close if the updated Disclosure Schedule is not reasonably acceptable to that Purchaser. Some practitioners prefer to deliver the Disclosure Schedule separately, instead of as an exhibit to the Stock Purchase Agreement, so that the Disclosure Schedule will not have to be publicly filed in the event the Stock Purchase Agreement is filed as an exhibit to a public offering registration statement.

FtNt.14.sec=The purpose of this representation is to ensure that basic corporate maintenance has been properly carried out by the Company. Note that the Company is required to disclose failure to qualify in other jurisdictions where it does business only if failure to do so could have a “Material Adverse Effect”; the purpose of this language is to eliminate the time and expense of doing a state-by-state analysis to determine whether the Company should technically be qualified. If the Company has material connections to states in which it is not qualified, these states must be investigated by counsel to determine whether qualification is necessary and whether there are potential adverse effects of having failed to qualify.

FtNt.15.sec=Section 2.2 describes the Company’s capital structure and can be stated either immediately prior to or upon the Initial Closing of the financing. This description details any outstanding rights or privileges with respect to the Company’s securities. In later round financings, this description would also list any preemptive rights, co-sale rights and rights of first refusal granted to investors in prior rounds. In later round financings, consider adding representations that there have been no conversions of previously-issued preferred stock to common stock, the number of shares that would be outstanding on an as-converted-to-common stock basis and the current conversion ratios of each series of preferred stock.

FtNt.16.sec=Note that the amendments to Rule 506 of Regulation D (“{DefT.Rule_506}”) effective September 23, 2013 added additional requirements for offerings made in reliance on the exception from registration provided by Rule 506. Those include the absence of “bad actors” and, for offerings involving general solicitation under Rule 506(c), the taking by the issuer of reasonable steps to confirm each purchaser’s accredited investor status. Accordingly, investors may wish to conduct additional due diligence on these matters.

FtNt.17.sec=The vesting schedule disclosures may be better handled in due diligence.  If removed, add the following vesting schedule representation in Section 2.2(d) as the first or second sentence: “All outstanding Common Stock (and all stock options) held by service providers are subject to a customary vesting schedule over four (4) years with a one (1) year cliff, except as set forth in Section 2.2(d) of the Disclosure Schedule.”

FtNt.18.sec=It should be noted that the consensus among the NVCA drafting group was that the 409A issues are better dealt with as a diligence item, rather than a Company rep. Nevertheless, this rep is included here because it is in any case important that the issue be surfaced as part of the financing, to ensure that the Company is mindful of the obligations and potential penalties imposed by 409A as it makes future equity grants. Inserting the rep in the first draft, as a discussion item, is one way to ensure that the issue is not neglected.

FtNt.19.sec=The purpose of this representation is to require the Company to fully disclose its structure, including other corporations, if any, that it controls. If the Company does have subsidiaries, you should (i) add to Section 2.2(f) a representation with respect to the subsidiaries of the Company modeled after Section 2.1 regarding the organization, good standing and qualification of each such subsidiary, and (ii) add a reference to subsidiaries where appropriate in Section 2. Some formulations include subsidiaries in the definition of the Company.  This approach works if careful attention is given to representations where the effect of such inclusion requires additional language (for example, the representation in Section 2.2 would require either the exclusion of subsidiaries or a separate paragraph regarding the capitalization of subsidiaries).

FtNt.20.sec=In certain jurisdictions, ancillary agreements executed in connection with the financing, such as noncompetition provisions or voting agreements, may be subject to some question regarding their enforceability, and the representation should be modified accordingly.

FtNt.21.sec=The representations in Sections 2.4 and 2.5 are intended to ensure that the Company has taken all steps necessary to issue the preferred stock in accordance with applicable corporate law. This means that, before the closing, the Company must (A) obtain the requisite stockholder and board approvals to amend the Certificate of Incorporation and issue the stock; (B) file the Restated Certificate; and (C) obtain any other stockholder consents or waivers required pursuant to the Restated Certificate, Bylaws, and existing agreements with securityholders (most importantly, waivers to any existing rights of first offer or refusal). Section 2.5 also requires the Company to disclose any restrictions on transfer other than those contained in the Transaction Agreements (such as any contained in the Restated Certificate and Bylaws, or any preemptive rights contained in agreements with other securityholders).

FtNt.22.sec=The litigation representation will often be unqualified in Series A financings. The bracketed materiality qualifiers are more common in later rounds of financings. In subsequent rounds it is no longer appropriate to have the Company make representations regarding directors (as opposed to employees), since directors will include investor representatives. 

FtNt.23.sec=It may be appropriate to include a knowledge qualifier as to investigations since it would be difficult for the Company to know of an investigation unless it had been notified. Some investors nevertheless feel the risk is appropriately borne by the Company.

FtNt.24.sec=Section 2.8 gives the Purchasers assurances that the Company has the intellectual property rights necessary to conduct its business, or has disclosed its need to acquire further rights. Although Purchasers prefer an unqualified representation, this provision is often heavily negotiated, and may be impossible for the Company to make with certainty for a product in a very early stage of development. Under a common compromise, the Company provides an unqualified representation with respect to everything but patents, on the theory that potential patent conflicts cannot always be uncovered even after reasonable investigation, and that patent conflicts therefore represent an unknown risk that is fairly borne by both parties.

FtNt.25.sec=Lawyers representing investors may seek to use a broader list of items by requiring “Company Intellectual Property” to be set forth on the Disclosure Schedule.  Note however that scheduling things like trade secrets may be challenging for the Company.

FtNt.26.sec=This representation regarding non-use of open source software is intended to elicit disclosure of publicly available, third-party source code that the Company has incorporated, or intends to incorporate, into its products if such code is distributed under any license that imposes specified obligations upon the Company, and perhaps then only if the third party source code has been included in a product that the Company has released as, in most cases, the Purchasers should be concerned primarily about use of this sort of third-party source code. Much publicly available source code is distributed under licenses that permit it to be freely used and redistributed without imposing onerous obligations upon those that use it to develop their own software and listing all such code may be of little added value. Note also that the General Public License (“{DefT.GPL}”) and other so-called “viral” open source licenses impose potentially onerous obligations upon licensees only if code distributed under them is incorporated into a product that is actually released to the general public. Some proprietary software companies experiment with code distributed under the GPL during the development process with no intention of retaining GPL code in the products ultimately released to their customers. (This experimentation typically is done in a separate “branch” of the source code of a product in development.) A more expansive open source representation, which would require substantially more scheduling, is as follows: “The Company has not embedded any open source, copyleft or community source code in any of its products generally available or in development, including but not limited to any libraries or code licensed under any General Public License, Lesser General Public License or similar license arrangement.” The primary benefit of requiring this expanded disclosure is that the investors can perform their own diligence on the open source software rather than relying on the Company to properly disclose against the narrower representation.

FtNt.27.sec=Sections 2.7 and 2.10 require the Company to disclose material contracts as well as other agreements or arrangements that might be important from a due diligence standpoint regardless of dollar amount (such as intellectual property licenses or a proposed acquisition of the Company). The disclosure thresholds are negotiable. 

FtNt.28.sec=This representation is not standard, but is sometimes requested by investors concerned that the Company might be considering a business combination transaction.

FtNt.29.sec=This representation requires disclosure of situations which could create a conflict of interest. This is an item of particular concern in the first round of venture capital financing, since loans among the Company and its founders and their families (which may not be well documented) are especially common prior to the first infusion of outside capital.

FtNt.30.sec=The bracketed portion of this sentence may be a broader representation than the Company is comfortable giving. In addition, it is appropriate to include directors throughout this section only at the first financing round. In subsequent rounds the directors will include investor representatives, and it should not be incumbent on the Company to make disclosures as to them. 

FtNt.31.sec=Prior registration rights may conflict with those currently being negotiated among the investors and the Company. Therefore, any such rights must be carefully reviewed and any conflicts resolved. It is common to have any previous registration rights agreement amended to include the new investors, or replaced by a new agreement including the old and new investors and clarifying their rights relative to each other as well as the Company. It is preferable to have all registration rights relating to the Company’s securities set forth in one document. Having several different sets of rights outstanding can be a significant (and confusing) complication when the Company goes public.

FtNt.32.sec=For early stage companies without financial statements, it may be appropriate to have an alternative provision, such as the following:  “Material Liabilities. The Company has no liability or obligation, absolute or contingent (individually or in the aggregate), except (i) obligations and liabilities incurred after the date of incorporation in the ordinary course of business that are not material, individually or in the aggregate, and (ii) obligations under contracts made in the ordinary course of business that would not be required to be reflected in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.”

FtNt.33.sec=The purpose of this representation is to “bring down” the financial statements from the period covered thereby. Therefore, the blank in Section 2.14 should be filled with the last date covered by the financial statements provided to the investors, and any of the changes listed in this section must be disclosed on the Disclosure Schedule. While the itemization in this section serves as a useful due diligence checklist, this section can be replaced by a much shorter section reading simply, “[To the Company’s knowledge], since [______,] there have been no events or circumstances of any kind that have had or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.”

FtNt.34.sec=The following representation, which appeared in the prior version of this model SPA, can be inserted in Section 2.16 when greater detail is desired about the Company’s service providers and their compensation arrangements:  “As of the date hereof, the Company employs [________] full-time employees and [________] part-time employees and engages [________] consultants or independent contractors. [Section 2.16(___) of] the Disclosure Schedule sets forth a detailed description of all compensation, including salary, bonus, severance obligations and deferred compensation paid or payable for each officer, employee, consultant and independent contractor of the Company who received compensation in excess of $[________] for the fiscal year ended [____ __, 20_] or is anticipated to receive compensation in excess of $[________] for the fiscal year ending [____ __, 20_].”  Many practitioners prefer not to list employee compensation in the Disclosure Schedule. Employee compensation is a sensitive matter for many companies, and there is always a risk of the Disclosure Schedule inadvertently winding up in the wrong hands.

FtNt.35.sec=See footnote 30 – same point as to investor directors.

FtNt.36.sec=The following representation can be added to focus attention on whether there are any diligence issues related to prior workplace misconduct: “or (e) informed, following an internal investigation: (i) by the Company that such Key Employee or director has violated any Company policy regarding appropriate workplace behavior or any Company anti-harassment or anti-discrimination policy prohibiting discrimination and/or harassment at the Company, or (ii) by any prior employer of the violation of any substantially similar policy.”

FtNt.37.sec=Consider PFIC/CFC representations as appropriate.

FtNt.38.sec=The investors may negotiate life insurance coverage in favor of the Company for certain founders or other key employees. If such coverage is in effect prior to the closing, it may be appropriate to add to this representation a statement of the covered individuals and amount of coverage for each. 

FtNt.39.sec=Add specific coverages if concerned.

FtNt.40.sec=This representation is appropriate if there are foreign investors (i.e., nonresident aliens) involved in the financing, since they are subject to the Foreign Investment Real Property Tax Act of 1980 (“{DefT.FIRPTA}”). Under FIRPTA, a transfer of an interest in a U.S. Real Property Holding Corporation (a “USRPHC”) by a foreign investor is subject to tax withholding, notwithstanding the general rule that sales of stock by foreigners are not subject to U.S. taxation. A corporation is USRPHC if more than fifty percent (50%) of its assets consist of U.S. real property. While very few, if any, venture capital investors are USRPHCs, it is customary to provide this representation in order to ensure that any foreign investors will not be subject to tax withholding. Regardless of FIRPTA, if a foreign person or entity is, directly or indirectly, acquiring a ten percent (10%) or greater voting interest in the Company, it must file Form BE-13 with the U.S. Department of Commerce unless an exemption applies.

FtNt.41.sec=Section 1202 of the Code provides for a one hundred percent (100%) exclusion (subject to certain limitations) from taxable income of gains recognized on the disposition of certain stock in qualifying corporations that has been held for at least five (5) years. Although investors may ask for such a representation, companies may resist on the theory that the analysis regarding current compliance is complex, and that many elements of the test are outside the Company’s control. In any event, compliance with numerous other requirements during the time the investor holds the stock is needed for the investor to qualify for the benefits of Section 1202.  See also QSBS covenants in NVCA Model IRA. 

FtNt.42.sec=The Small Business Concern representation is only necessary if one (1) or more Purchasers is a SBIC.

FtNt.43.sec=See footnote 30.

FtNt.44.sec=Many early stage companies may not have internal controls and policies in place and be unable to provide this representation.  When this is the case, in lieu of a representation it might be appropriate for the Purchasers to request a post-closing covenant that the Company will put such controls in place.

FtNt.45.sec=Intended for inclusion where the Company collects or processes payment card information, whether directly or through a third-party payment processor. 

FtNt.46.sec=Comments to this Section 2.28 are generally intended to address new considerations under, and increased risks posed by, the new generation of privacy laws that have taken effect since the last update (e.g., GDPR, CCPA).

FtNt.47.sec=In this representation, the Company confirms that it is not a “TID U.S. business” within the meaning of that term pursuant to the regulations of the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS).  Companies that are not TID U.S. businesses are (a) not subject to either of the two CFIUS mandatory filing regimes and (b) not subject to CFIUS’s extended jurisdiction over non-controlling transactions.  This representation does not wholly eliminate the possibility of CFIUS intervention – CFIUS has the discretionary right to elect to intervene in any transaction that grants a foreign party a control stake in a U.S. business (e.g., an investment of ten percent (10%) or more, or that otherwise grants substantive rights of control) - but it should provide investors with significant comfort.  Some Companies will not be able to make all parts of this representation but will be able to make part (a), the “no critical technologies” representation, which would eliminate the need to make the most common form of mandatory CFIUS filing.  The final line of the representation will provide investors additional comfort that reevaluation at the time of the next capital raise is not required.  Either this representation or the Purchaser representation in Section 3.9, below, is sufficient to show that no mandatory CFIUS filing applies.  

FtNt.48.sec=For life science transactions, consider adding the representations and warranties in this Section 2.31 pertaining to clinical trials and in Section 2.32 and 2.33 pertaining to FDA approval.  These can be customized to development stage of the Company.  

FtNt.49.sec=There is no consensus position on what should be included in the “Disclosure” representation. Purchasers will generally try to obtain an unqualified representation that none of the written information and business plan information provided to them by the Company contains a material misstatement or a materially misleading omission. The Company will generally try to resist such a broad representation, on the basis that a 10b-5 type representation, commonly found in an IPO prospectus, is inappropriate for a private financing in which a prospectus-type due diligence process has not occurred. The language shown represents a compromise position. It is important to note that the investors’ right of recovery for a breach of this rep may be broader than under Rule SEC 10b-5, because in order to prevail in a Rule 10b-5 securities fraud action, the purchaser must establish that the seller acted with scienter. That is, a purely innocent misrepresentation normally does not give rise to civil liability under 10b-5. Another issue for a Series A investor to consider is the relative utility of this rep to the Series A investor at this stage, versus the risk of giving such a broad rep to investors in later rounds (who, in a worst case, may be looking for a rep on which to “hang their hat” if they decide they want out of the investment).

FtNt.50.sec=The main purpose of the Purchasers’ representations and warranties in Section 3 are to ensure that the investors meet the criteria for private placement exceptions under applicable state and federal securities laws.

FtNt.51.sec=Occasionally, a venture capital fund will allow its employees and principals to co-invest through a special entity as a nominee. Assuming these employees and principals meet the accreditation or sophistication standards necessary for the private placement exemption being relied on, and assuming the special purpose entity is not formed solely for the purpose of this investment, the language of this provision can be tailored to carve out that special entity.

FtNt.52.sec=Include the bracketed language if the private placement exemption is based on the safe harbor in Rule 155(c) under the Securities Act for private offerings following an abandoned public offering.

FtNt.53.sec=In this representation, the Purchaser confirms that it is not a “foreign person” within the meaning of that term pursuant to the regulations of the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS), and that it does not permit a foreign person to obtain CFIUS triggering rights by virtue of its investment.  Purchasers that are not foreign persons and do not grant foreign persons such rights are not subject to CFIUS review in either its mandatory or elective forms.  Either this representation or the Company representation in Section 2.30, above, is sufficient to show that no mandatory CFIUS filing applies.

FtNt.54.sec=This provision is intended to protect the lead investor from claims of reliance by other investors.

FtNt.55.sec=This eliminates any issues resulting from possible miscalculation of the amount owed to investor noteholders (miscalculations that can result from, for example, application of conversion discounts). 

FtNt.56.sec=Section 4 contains the conditions which the Company must satisfy (or which must be waived) prior to closing in order to trigger the investors’ obligation to purchase the shares; Section 5 contains the conditions the investors must satisfy to trigger the Company’s obligation to sell the shares. With respect to each side, the essential requirements are (A) that all of the representations and warranties each makes in the Agreement are still true at the closing, and (B) that the other parties have entered into the other Transaction Agreements. If (as is typically the case) the Agreement contemplates a simultaneous signing and closing, consider deleting Sections 4.1 – 4.4, 4.6, 4.13, 4.14 and 4.17 (which, for the most part, can be covered by the representations in Section 2), and recasting the other sections of Section 4 as closing deliverables. If the Agreement contemplates multiple closings (e.g., milestone closings), attention should be given to determining what conditions must be satisfied in order to trigger the investors’ obligations to purchase shares at subsequent closings.  Sections 4.3 and 4.5 specifically require the Company to deliver at the Closing a Compliance Certificate and opinion of Company Counsel. In addition, it is generally necessary to deliver at the Closing (A) a Secretary’s certificate certifying the Company’s bylaws, board resolutions approving the transaction, and stockholder resolutions approving the Restated Certificate, (B) good standing certificates from the Secretary of State, (C) the certified Restated Certificate, and (D) waivers of any rights of first refusal triggered by the financing. These documents are therefore listed as “Closing Documents” on transaction checklists even though they are not specifically required to be delivered by the Agreement and are technically covered by the Compliance Certificate and the opinion of the Company’s counsel. If the transaction is structured as a simultaneous signing and closing, the closing conditions serve as a convenient closing checklist, but are significantly diminished in importance. If there are to be subsequent closings, consider whether all of the closing conditions applicable to the Initial Closing should be applicable to the subsequent closing. It may be appropriate to include a separate, more limited set of closing conditions for a subsequent closing. 

FtNt.57.sec=Opinions can be expensive and time consuming; particularly for early stage deals, and as a result the parties might agree to forego a legal opinion as a condition precedent.  

FtNt.58.sec=See explanatory commentary in introduction to model Management Rights Letter.

FtNt.59.sec=Sometimes a limited survival period is negotiated.

FtNt.60.sec=Some practitioners may select Delaware law as it has historically been the richest source for corporation law precedent.  Other practitioners will prefer to choose the (non-Delaware) jurisdiction in which they are admitted to practice, if for no other reason than not having to retain Delaware counsel in the event they are called upon to give an enforceability opinion.

FtNt.61.sec=This provision may need to be modified to fit the facts of a particular transaction.

FtNt.62.sec=Typically, only the lead Purchaser is actually represented by counsel, with the other Purchasers relying on the lead Purchaser having conducted due diligence and hired legal counsel. Occasionally, counsel will represent the Purchasers as a group, or one (1) or more of the other Purchasers will have separate counsel, in which case this provision will need to be tailored accordingly.

FtNt.63.sec=This clause is only necessary where the transaction is structured to be signed in advance of closing.

FtNt.64.sec=Section 6.14 is to be used for transactions governed by California law that are not relying on NSMIA for a state securities law exemption.

FtNt.65.sec=Some lawyers prefer to include a binding arbitration provision as the sole means of dispute resolution on the theory that arbitration is confidential and may be less expensive and more efficient.  Some investors, however, dislike arbitration because the result cannot be appealed, and the arbitrator(s) is not bound to follow case law and precedent.

FtNt.66.sec=This arbitration provision is offered as an alternative to the AAA provision for parties that would prefer to resolve disputes under the Delaware Rapid Arbitration Act. The DRAA implements a number of new approaches in arbitration that make the statute unique among national and international arbitration regimes. First, the Act provides for a truncated “summary” proceeding before the Delaware Court of Chancery to select an arbitrator where such selection was not made in the agreement to arbitrate.   By statute, this proceeding must be concluded no more than thirty (30) days after its initiating filing is served, and the jurisdiction of the Court is highly limited. Second, the Act divests the courts of jurisdiction to hear and decide any issue concerning arbitrability or the scope of issues to be arbitrated. Instead, the Act vests the arbitrator, and only the arbitrator, with the power and authority to decide such issues.  Thus, the body of law relating to whether an issue presented at the outset is “substantive” or “procedural” does not apply to arbitrations under the Act, and neither party can seek to disrupt the commencement of a DRAA arbitration by running into court. Third, the Act vests the arbitrator with power to enjoin any conduct of a party to the arbitration and divests the courts of power in this regard after an arbitrator is appointed, thus avoiding the need for parallel proceedings to compel or enjoin arbitration.  Finally, the Act provides that, absent an agreement otherwise, all matters must be finally determined within one hundred and twenty (120) days of the arbitrator’s acceptance of appointment (which deadline may be extended to one hundred and eighty (180) days, but no longer, by unanimous consent of the parties). Furthermore, the Act imposes a financial penalty on an arbitrator who does not decide the matter within the allotted timeframe: the forfeiture of the arbitrator’s fees. The Act makes challenges to the arbitrator’s final award available directly to the Delaware Supreme Court in accordance with the limited standards set forth in the Federal Arbitration Act, eliminating any intermediate level of review. The Act also provides that the parties may waive any right to challenge or appeal the arbitrator’s final award by agreement or, where the parties wish to maintain confidentiality or allow more searching review, they may proceed with an arbitral appeal.

FtNt.67.sec=The parties may elect to use different rules. If different rules are desired, they should be set forth or incorporated by reference into this Section (b).

FtNt.68.sec=The parties may elect to hold the arbitration in a different location. Note, however, that the “seat” of the arbitration is, by statute, in Delaware. This simply means that Delaware law governs the arbitration, wherever it occurs.

FtNt.69.sec=The parties may wish to proceed before a panel of arbitrators. In such event, this provision should be changed to reflect the desired number of arbitrators and to state their names or provide the descriptive qualifications.

FtNt.70.sec=The DRAA empowers the parties to include one, both or neither of the provisions set forth in Section (e). If the parties wish to proceed without discovery, neither of the sentences in Section (e) would be included. If they wish to proceed with only party discovery, then only the first sentence would be used. The second sentence would be used only where the parties wished to be able to take discovery from third parties. The Act would also permit the taking of only documentary discovery (as opposed to deposition or other testimony) or, alternatively, only oral testimony (as opposed to documents). The Act contemplates that the scope of discovery is customizable in this agreement, so in all events, this issue should be addressed. The statutory default, which would come into play if this provision was not included in some form, would be for the Arbitrator to be empowered to summon party witnesses and evidence, but not third-party evidence or witnesses.

FtNt.71.sec=The DRAA provides that the agreement may modify or eliminate the foregoing processes. Elimination may be appropriate in circumstances where the parties agree to present a pure issue of law for resolution, or in circumstances where a narrow, technical issue is the subject of the arbitration.

FtNt.72.sec=The parties may specify a longer period for the arbitration. If they do not do so, the one hundred and twenty (120)day period of the DRAA is the default, and such period may be extended by no more than an additional sixty (60) days, and then only upon consent of all parties to the arbitration.

FtNt.73.sec=A reasoned award is not required by the Act, but may be required by the parties’ contract.

FtNt.74.sec=The DRAA allows the parties to waive the right to appeal. This provision should only be included if the parties intend to waive appellate rights. Section (l) below is included in the event that the parties wish to preserve the right to appeal the Arbitrator’s award, in which case clause (iv) of Section (g) should not be included.

FtNt.75.sec=Under the DRAA, the parties have the right to limit the power of the Arbitrator to award relief. Any such limitation should be specified here, in lieu of the last sentence of this provision.

FtNt.76.sec=This phrase would be included only in the event that one or both parties were subject to federal disclosure obligations which could encompass the Arbitration.

FtNt.77.sec=Eliminate reference to “third party discovery proceedings” in the event that such proceedings were not contracted for in Section (e), above.

FtNt.78.sec=Clause (v) would be excluded in the event that third-party discovery was not provided for in Section (e) above.

FtNt.79.sec=The DRAA permits the parties to direct how costs of the Arbitration are to be borne. Thus, in the event that the parties wish to vary this provision, they should do so here. Such variations could include a “loser pays” provision or an “arbitrator chooses” provision, which is not prohibited by the DRAA.

FtNt.80.sec=The DRAA permits the parties to waive appellate review, to proceed with a limited review in the Delaware Supreme Court, or to proceed with a private appellate arbitral review. This provision contemplates a review in the Delaware Supreme Court. In the event it is used, the parties should eliminate clause (iv) of Section (g).

FtNt.81.sec=The following is an alternative appellate provision in the event that the parties do not to wish to proceed with an appeal before the Delaware Supreme Court and desire a limited scope of appeal in accordance with the FAA. 

FtNt.82.sec=In the event that the parties wish to have a particular type of arbitrator appointed, they should so specify here. If not, the Court will appoint one (1) or more senior Delaware lawyers.

FtNt.83.sec=This provision contemplates a scope of challenge to the Arbitrator’s final judgment limited to the grounds for review of an arbitral award under the Federal Arbitration Act. Parties who wish a broader scope of review may wish to consider the succeeding alternate provision set forth above.

FtNt.84.sec=The following is an alternative appellate provision for use in the event that the parties do not to wish to proceed with an appeal before the Delaware Supreme Court and desire that the scope of their appeal be as broad as possible.

FtNt.85.sec=In the event that the parties wish to have a particular type of arbitrator appointed, they should so specify here. If not, the Court will appoint one (1) or more senior Delaware lawyers.

FtNt.86.sec=Some investors prefer to be carved out of this waiver and to address any potential conflicts of interest and possible waivers on a transaction by transaction basis.

