1.Ti=Position and Scope of Employment

1.sec=Your initial title will be {Employee.Title}, and you will initially report to {_the_Company}’s {Employee.Report} or to such other person as {_the_Company} may subsequently determine.  This is a full-time position.  While you render services to {_the_Company}, you will not engage in any other employment, consulting or other business activity (whether full-time or part-time) that would create a conflict of interest with {_the_Company}.  By signing {this_Agreement}, you confirm to {_the_Company} that you have no contractual commitments or other legal obligations that would prohibit you from performing your duties for {_the_Company}. You shall comply with {_the_Company}’s policies and rules, as they may be in effect from time to time during your Employment.

2.Ti=Cash Compensation

2.sec={_the_Company} will pay you a starting salary at annual gross rate of {GrossSalary/perTime}, payable in accordance with {_the_Company}’s standard payroll schedule.  This salary will be subject to adjustment pursuant to {_the_Company}’s employee compensation policies in effect from time to time.

3.Ti=Stock Options

3.sec=Subject to the approval of {_the_Company}’s Board of Directors, you will be granted an option to purchase {OptionShares} shares of {_the_Company}’s common stock.  The option will be subject to the terms and conditions applicable to options granted under {_the_Company}’s {Stock Plan Name}, as described in that plan and the applicable stock option agreement, which you will be required to sign.  You will vest in {Vest.Year1.%} of the option shares on the 12-month anniversary of your vesting commencement date and {Vest.Month13.%} of the total option shares will vest in monthly installments thereafter during continuous service, as described in the applicable stock option agreement.  The exercise price per share will be equal to the fair market value per share on the date the option is granted, as determined by {_the_Company}’s Board of Directors in good faith compliance with applicable guidance in order to avoid having the option be treated as deferred compensation under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  There is no guarantee that the Internal Revenue Service will agree with this value.  You should consult with your own tax advisor concerning the tax risks associated with accepting an option to purchase {_the_Company}’s common stock.

4.Ti=Employee Benefits

4.sec=As a regular employee of {_the_Company}, you will be eligible to participate in a number of Company-sponsored benefits.  

5.Ti=Non-Disclosure  Agreement

5.sec=You will be required, as a condition of your employment with {_the_Company}, to sign {_the_Company}’s standard Non-Disclosure Agreement, prior to your Start Date, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit A.

6.Ti=Employment at Will

6.sec=Employment with {_the_Company} is for no specific period of time.  Your employment with {_the_Company} will be “at will,” meaning that either you or {_the_Company} may terminate your employment at any time and for any reason, with or without cause.  Any contrary representations that may have been made to you are superseded by {this_Agreement}.  This is the full and complete agreement between you and {_the_Company} on this term.  Although your job duties, title, compensation{q} and benefits, as well as {_the_Company}’s personnel policies and procedures, may change from time to time, the “at will” nature of your employment may only be changed in an express written agreement signed by you and the {_the_Company}’s Chief Executive Officer. 

7.Ti=Tax Matters

7.1.Ti=Withholding

7.1.sec=All forms of compensation referred to in {this_Agreement} are subject to reduction to reflect applicable withholding and payroll taxes and other deductions required by law.


7.2.Ti=Tax Advice

7.2.sec=You are encouraged to obtain your own tax advice regarding your compensation from {_the_Company}.  You agree that {_the_Company} does not have a duty to design its compensation policies in a manner that minimizes your tax liabilities, and you will not make any claim against {_the_Company} or its Board of Directors related to tax liabilities arising from your compensation.

7.3.=[G/Agt-NDA-CmA/Sec/Misc/Sever/0.md]

7.4.Sec={Entire.Alt1.Sec}

Entire.=[G/Agt-NDA-CmA/Sec/Misc/Entire/0.md]

7.=[G/Z/ol/4]

8.=[G/Agt-NDA-CmA/Sec/Relate/Dispute/0.md]

9.Ti=Acceptance of Offer

9.sec=This offer, if not accepted, will expire at the close of business on {Offer.Expire.YMD}.  As required by law, your employment with {_the_Company} is contingent upon your providing legal proof of your identity and authorization to work in the United States.  Your employment is also contingent upon your starting work with {_the_Company} on or before {Employment.Begin.YMD}.

Attach.Sec=Exhibit A Non-Disclosure Agreement 

=[G/Agt-Form-CmA/US/0.md]

=[G/Z/ol/9]