Ti=Definitions

Intro.sec=The following definitions are intended to align with the {_Framework} and other GA4GH policies. They are not intended as a substitute for definitions found in relevant laws or regulations.

Note="anonymized data" and "pseudonymized data" are defined but not used in this document.  Are they intended for use in other documents?

anonymized_data.sec=“{_anonymized_data}” means data that are rendered anonymous in such a way that the {_data_subject} is not or is no longer identifiable.

controlled_access.sec=“{_controlled_access}” means a data access model whereby qualified researchers apply for data access and their research plans are reviewed, often by a committee. Also known as managed or restricted access.

data_subject.sec=“{_data_subject}” means the individual whose data have been processed, i.e., collected, generated, held, used, or shared.

pseudonymized_data.sec=“{_pseudonymized_data}” means data which have been processed in such a manner (e.g. by assigning one or more random codes) that the data can no longer be attributed to a specific {_data_subject} without the use of additional information, provided that such additional information is kept separately and is subject to technical and organizational measures to ensure that the data are not attributed to an identified or identifiable natural person. Also known as coded data.

registered_access.sec=“{_registered_access}” means a data access model whereby qualified researchers apply for data access to one dataset or multiple datasets at once by providing details of their identity for authentication and agreeing to terms and conditions of data use during the registration process.

sec={Intro.sec}<ul type=none><li>{anonymized_data.sec}</li><li>{controlled_access.sec}</li><li>{data_subject.sec}</li><li>{pseudonymized_data.sec}</li><li>{registered_access.sec}</li></ul>

=[G/Z/Base]
