Ti=Social Impact Advisory Board

1.Ti=Role

1.sec=The Libra Social Impact Advisory Board (SIAB) is designed to be an advisory body on behalf of the Libra Association Council led by social impact partners (known as SIPs), which include nonprofit and multilateral organizations, and academic institutions.


2.Ti=Membership

2.1.0.sec=The advisory board consists of five to seven members. The council can change the number of advisory board members. The members of the board are:

2.1.1.sec=The Managing Director of the Libra Association.

2.1.2.sec=SIPs and academic institution representatives, elected by the council.

2.1.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

2.2.sec=The first elections will take place in the first meeting of the council.

2.3.sec=The term of the advisory board members will be one year. Advisory board members can be reelected year after year, indefinitely.

2.4.sec=The council can remove an advisory board member at any point in time by a regular majority.

2.=[G/Z/ol/s4]

3.Ti=Responsibilities

3.1.sec=Setting the SIAB longterm strategic agenda in line with the association's mission.

3.2.sec=Refining the criteria for how the SIAB will recommend the allocation of grants and social-impact investments.

3.3.sec=Building and implementing the process for grant submissions, including selecting grantees (via a peer review so advisory board institutions will still be able to receive grant funding via the SIAB, subject to compliance with conflict of interest rules).

3.4.sec=Measuring and reporting on social impact, developing new social-impact initiatives, implementing learnings from grantees across the entire Libra ecosystem, and serving as convening party to bring other SIPs to join the association.

3.5.sec=Grant/funding recommendations agreed upon by the SIAB will be brought for approval to the Libra Association Board.

3.6.sec=Make recommendations to the Libra Association Board as to which SIPs are approved to serve as nodes under delegation from Founding Members.

3.=[G/Z/ol/s6]

=[G/Z/ol-AA/3]
