Ti=Libra Association Board

1.Ti=Role

1.sec=The Libra Association Board is designed to be an oversight body on behalf of the Libra Association Council, providing operational guidance to the association's executive team.

2.Ti=Membership

Note=There is an error of paragraphing in the original.  Member of the Board listing includes additional provisions about removal etc.

2.0.sec=The board consists of no less than five and no more than 19 members, the exact number to be set by the council and can change over time. The members of the board are:

2.1.sec=The Managing Director of the Libra Association.

2.2.0.sec=Members of the council, elected by the council.

2.2.1.sec=The first elections will take place in the first meeting of the council.

2.2.2.sec=The term of the board members will be one year. Board members can be reelected year after year, indefinitely.

2.2.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

2.3.sec=Membership of the board is automatically terminated in the case the board member is no longer a council member or a Managing Director. The council can remove a board member at any point in time by regular majority.

2.4.0.sec=The board's decisions require a regular majority of the board's votes, i.e., one of the following:

Note=Again this weird formating of "or" as a list item.

2.4.1.sec=At least one-half of the votes participating in a vote support the decision, provided that board members assigned with at least two-thirds of the total votes are participating.

2.4.2.sec=— OR —

2.4.3.sec=At least one-half of total votes of all board members support the decision.

2.4.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

2.=[G/Z/ol/s4]

3.Ti=Responsibilities

3.0.sec=The responsibilities of the board will be determined by the council. The council can assign/delegate to the board any of its authorities except the authority to make decisions that require a supermajority vote. The preliminary roles of the board are to:

3.1.sec=Preapprove the budget of the association ahead of its approval by the council.

3.2.sec=Propose to the council the timing of fundraising rounds through the sale of new Libra Investment Tokens or the cancellation of such sale in the case such fundraising is not necessary for the growth of the Libra ecosystem.

3.3.sec=Receive quarterly updates from the association's executive team on the Libra ecosystem status and progress, and define the topics to be addressed and the information to be provided in these status and progress reports.

3.4.sec=Veto or make decisions on behalf of the Managing Director of the association if brought to its attention.

3.5.sec=Set the agenda of council meetings.

3.6.sec=Call an emergency vote of the council.

3.7.sec=Approve grant/funding recommendations by the Libra Social Impact Advisory Board.
Approve social impact partners as eligible to become nodes under delegation from Founding Members.

3.=[G/Z/ol/s7]

=[G/Z/ol-AA/3]
