Sec=<b>{Title}</b> <ol><li>{Export.Sec}</li><li>{CREATE.Sec}</li><li>{Disclaim.Agency.Sec}</li><li>{Entire.Sec}</li><li>{Assign.Sec}</li><li>{Sever.Sec}</li><li>{Waive.Sec}</li><li>{Law.Sec}</li><li>{Counterpart.Sec}</li></ol>

Title=Miscellaneous Provisions

Export.Sec=<b>{Export.Title}</b><br> {Export.sec}

Export.Title=Export Control

Export.sec={DP.Each} covenants and warrants that it will not disclose to {RP.other} any information that contains information, technology or data identified on any U.S. export control list, including the Commerce Control List at 15 CFR 774 and the U.S. Munitions List at 22 CFR 121, unless and until it obtains {Export.Consent.cl}.

CREATE.Sec=<b>{CREATE.Title}</b><br> {CREATE.sec}

CREATE.Title=CREATE Act

CREATE.sec=For the purposes of the Cooperative Research and Technology Enhancement Act of 2004, the parties agree that this Agreement is not considered a joint research agreement.

Disclaim.Agency.Sec=<b>{Disclaim.Agency.Title}</b><br> {Disclaim.Agency.sec}

Disclaim.Agency.Title=No Agency or Future Commitment

Disclaim.Agency.sec=The parties do not intend that any agency, partnership, joint venture{q} or exclusive relationship is created between the parties by this Agreement, and each party is free to pursue relationships and opportunities with others similar to those contemplated by this Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as obligating the parties to enter into any subsequent agreement or relationship.

Entire.Sec=<b>{Entire.Title}</b><br>  {Entire.sec}

Entire.Title=Entire Agreement/Amendment

Entire.sec=This Agreement contains the entire understanding of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement may be amended or modified only by a written instrument signed by an authorized representative of each party.

Assign.Sec=<b>{Assign.Title}</b><br>  {Assign.sec}

Assign.Title=Assignment

Assign.sec=This Agreement may not be assigned by either party without the other party's prior written consent.

Sever.Sec=<b>{Sever.Title}</b><br> {Sever.sec}

Sever.Title=Severability

Sever.sec=The provisions of this Agreement are severable. In the event any provision of this Agreement is determined to be invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof and the provision shall be reformed to be enforceable and reflect as closely as possible the intent of the original provision.

Waive.Sec=<b>{Waive.Title}</b><br> {Waive.sec} 

Waive.Title=Waiver

Waive.sec=Any waiver of compliance with the terms of this Agreement must be in writing, and any waiver in one instance shall not be deemed a waiver in any future instance.

Law.Sec=<b>{Law.Title}</b><br> {Law.sec}

Law.Title=Governing Law

Law.sec=The interpretation and validity of this Agreement and the rights of the parties shall be governed by the laws of {State.Of}.

Counterpart.Sec=<b>{Counterpart.Title}</b><br> {Counterpart.sec}

Counterpart.Title=Counterparts

Counterpart.sec=This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which will be deemed to be an original, but all of which together constitute one and the same instrument.

Model.Root={Sec}
