Ti=TECHNIQUE INVENTORY

Intro.sec=Note: The techniques below are not mutually exclusive, and some definitions may overlap with each other.  The list below is broadly intended to cover techniques as commonly used or referenced in standards, regulations, or common commercial contracts.

Deletion.Ti={Def.Deletion.Target}

Deletion.sec={_Deletion} is a {_Pseudo-Anonymization} technique that removes a {_Data_Subject} or attribute from a {_Dataset}.  {_Deletion} can affect one or more {_Data_Subjects} or one or more attributes.  In general, if {_Deletion} is selected for an attribute or {_Data_Subject}, Personnel should consider how and why the data was obtained and simply not collect that data from {_Data_Subjects} in the future.

{_Deletion}.Example=A classification algorithm is used to screen resumes for hiring.  The {_Dataset} obtained from HR contains an age attribute.  The age attribute is removed from the {_Dataset}.

Deletion.Synonym=Complete Redaction

Deletion.=[G/responsible-data-use-policy/PrOb/RDSP-Def/Sec/Z/Sec.md]

Masking.Ti={Def.Masking.Target}

Masking.sec={_Masking} is a {_Pseudo-Anonymization} technique that replaces or removes a subset of an attribute, typically while preserving the length or structure of an attribute.  {_Masking} is most commonly applied to data that is naturally character- or text-based.

Masking.Example.Deterministic=Example, Deterministic: The last N digits of a postal code care replaced with a character like # or *.  

Masking.Example.Stochastic=Example, Stochastic: The last N digits of a postal code are replaced with two random letters.

Masking.Example={_Masking}.Example.Deterministic}<br>{Masking.Example.Stochastic}

Masking.=[G/responsible-data-use-policy/PrOb/RDSP-Def/Sec/Z/Sec.md]

Shuffling.Ti={Def.Shuffling.Target}

Shuffling.sec={_Shuffling} is a Stochastic {_Pseudo-Anonymization} technique that alters the ordering of relationships between {_Data_Subject} and attributes.

Shuffling.Example=A {_Dataset} contains the age of individuals.  Each individual is assigned at random the age of a different individual in the {_Dataset}.  

Shuffling.=[G/responsible-data-use-policy/PrOb/RDSP-Def/Sec/Z/Sec.md]

Rounding.Ti={Def.Rounding.Target}

Rounding.sec={_Rounding} is a {_Pseudo-Anonymization} technique that alters a numeric attribute by replacing a value with the nearest point on a discretization of the number line, most typically discretized by tens, ones, or tenths place.  Tie-breaking in rounding may be Deterministic or Stochastic, for example, by 0.5 up or down at random or by always rounding down.  For ordinal values, rounding and binning are typically identical.

Rounding.Example=A {_Dataset} contains the age of individuals.  The ages are rounded to the nearest multiple of five; the ages 22, 23, and 27 are transformed to 20, 25, and 25.

Rounding.=[G/responsible-data-use-policy/PrOb/RDSP-Def/Sec/Z/Sec.md]

Flooring.Ti={Def.Flooring.Target}

Flooring.sec={_Flooring} is a {_Pseudo-Anonymization} technique that alters a numeric attribute by replacing a value with the first  integer value that it is less than or equal to.  {_Flooring} is similar to “rounding down” with integer discretization.

Flooring.Example=A {_Dataset} contains the age of individuals recorded to the first decimal.  The ages 22.0, 22.6, and 22.8 are all replaced by the value 22.  

Flooring.=[G/responsible-data-use-policy/PrOb/RDSP-Def/Sec/Z/Sec.md]

Ceiling.Ti={Def.Ceiling.Target}

Ceiling.sec=Ceiling is a {_Pseudo-Anonymization} technique that alters a numeric attribute by replacing a value with the first integer value that it is greater than or equal to. {_Ceiling} is similar to “rounding up” with integer discretization.

Ceiling.Example=A {_Dataset} contains the age of individuals recorded to the first decimal.  The ages 22.0, 22.6, and 22.8 are all replaced by the values 22, 23, and 23.

Ceiling.=[G/responsible-data-use-policy/PrOb/RDSP-Def/Sec/Z/Sec.md]

Truncation.Ti={Def.Truncation.Target}

Truncation.sec={_Truncation} is a {_Pseudo-Anonymization} technique that alters an attribute by removing digits or characters, typically from the end of a written number or string.  For numeric values, truncation is typically equivalent to flooring.


Truncation.Example=A {_Dataset} records the four-digit year of birth of an individual.  The last digit of each year is truncated, resulting in three-digit values.  For example, 1971, 1982, and 1993 are replaced by 197, 198, and 199.

Truncation.SeeAlso=flooring

Truncation.=[G/responsible-data-use-policy/PrOb/RDSP-Def/Sec/Z/Sec.md]

Rank.Ti={Def.Rank.Target}

Rank.sec={_Rank}ing is a {_Pseudo-Anonymization} technique that alters an attribute by replacing it with the value’s relative position in an ordering.  In the case of attributes that are cardinal or ordinal, the rank is the mathematical rank of the values.  Non-numeric attributes that have an ordinal interpretation can be mapped to ordinal values and ranked accordingly.

Rank.Example=A survey records open-ended feedback from employees about a company’s culture; a sentiment score is calculated for each response.  Each individual’s sentiment score is then replaced with its rank relative to others.  For example, if three individuals’ feedback scored at 3/10, 6/10, and 5/10, then these values would be replaced with 1, 3, and 2, respectively.  

Rank.SeeAlso={_Percentile}, {_Quantile}, {_Parametric_Normalization}

Rank.=[G/responsible-data-use-policy/PrOb/RDSP-Def/Sec/Z/Sec.md]

Percentile_or_Quantile.Ti={Def.Percentile.Target} or {Def.Quantile.Target}

Percentile_or_Quantile.sec=A {_Percentile} is a measure of the percentage of numerical attributes that are less than a given numerical attribute in a {_Dataset}.  A quantile is simply a {_Percentile} stated in decimal units instead of percentage.  {_Percentiles} and {_Quantiles} can be used as a {_Pseudo-Anonymization} technique by altering an attribute to replace it with its corresponding percentile or quantile in a {_Dataset}.

Percentile_or_Quantile.Example=A {_Dataset} contains the age of 50 individuals.  Each individual’s age is replaced with the corresponding percentile for the distribution of ages in the {_Dataset}.  For example, if 35 individuals have an age less than 27, then any individuals with an age of 27 will have their attribute replaced by 35/50 = 70% = 0.7.
Synonym: Inverse Cumulative Distribution Function (CDF, ICDF)

Percentile_or_Quantile.SeeAlso={_Rank}, {_Parametric_Normalization}

Percentile_or_Quantile.=[G/responsible-data-use-policy/PrOb/RDSP-Def/Sec/Z/Sec.md]

Parametric_Normalization.Ti={Def.Parametric_Normalization.Target}

Parametric_Normalization.sec={_Parametric_Normalization} is a {_Pseudo-Anonymization} technique that alters an attribute by replacing it with a value that is calculated using a sample or population distribution parameter, such as a standard deviation.  {_Parametric_Normalization} techniques typically include scaling (division) or shifting (subtraction), such as when normal or Gaussian data is transformed by subtracting the mean and dividing by the standard deviation. 

Parametric_Normalization.Example=A {_Dataset} contains the heights of individuals.  Using externally-known population parameters or sample statistics, the height of each individual is replaced by dividing the value by the standard deviation. 

Parametric_Normalization.=[G/responsible-data-use-policy/PrOb/RDSP-Def/Sec/Z/Sec.md]

Hashing.Ti={Def.Hashing.Target}

Hashing.sec={_Hashing} is a Deterministic {_Pseudo-Anonymization} technique that transforms attributes of an arbitrary size to a fixed-length value.  This technique is not intended to be reversible, though it is often intended to be approximately unique.  {_Hashing} is most commonly applied to binary data or data that is naturally character- or text-based.

Hashing.Example.Algorithm=Algorithms: MD5, RIPEMD, SHA1, SHA-2, SHA-3, BLAKE2, BLAKE3

Hashing.Example.SHA2=The SHA2-256 digest of the word “policy” is 823412d1eacb67956220e532959f0104603057c88704863ca38e7cd188fda812.

Hashing.Example={_Hashing}.Example.Algorithm}<br>{Hashing.Example.SHA2}

Hashing.Synonym=One-Way Encryption (colloquial), Hash

Hashing.SeeAlso={_Cryptographic_Hashing}, {_Encryption}

Hashing.=[G/responsible-data-use-policy/PrOb/RDSP-Def/Sec/Z/Sec.md]

Cryptographic_Hashing.Ti={Def.Cryptographic_Hashing.Target}

Cryptographic_Hashing.sec=A {_Hashing} technique can be described in a given context as a {_Cryptographic_Hashing} technique when it is not practically feasible to determine the input that produced a given {_Hashing} output.  {_Cryptographic_Hashing} techniques should have transparent models for estimating the costs of producing collisions and probabilities of collision.

Cryptographic_Hashing.Synonym=Cryptographic Hash

Cryptographic_Hashing.SeeAlso={_Hashing}

Cryptographic_Hashing.=[G/responsible-data-use-policy/PrOb/RDSP-Def/Sec/Z/Sec.md]

Encryption.Ti={Def.Encryption.Target}

Encryption.sec={_Encryption} is a Deterministic {_Pseudo-Anonymization} technique that transforms attributes of an arbitrary size into a different representation of arbitrary size that is not reversible by an actor without access to specific information, typically referred to as key(s).  {_Encryption} can be described as “strong” when it is not practically feasible to determine the original attribute value as a result of cost or probability.  Some {_Encryption} techniques may be designed to allow for verification of some information about a message, such as public-key signatures.

Encryption.Example=Algorithms: Substitution Ciphers, Triple DES (3DES), Blowfish, Twofish, AES, RSA, 

Encryption.Synonyms=Cipher

Encryption.SeeAlso={_Hashing}, {_Homomorphic_Encryption}

Encryption.=[G/responsible-data-use-policy/PrOb/RDSP-Def/Sec/Z/Sec.md]

Homomorphic_Encryption.Ti={Def.Homomorphic_Encryption.Target}

Homomorphic_Encryption.sec=An {_Encryption} technique can be described as Homomorphic in a given context when it supports computation without decryption.  Such encryption can be described as partially- or fully-homomorphic depending on the types of computations that are supported.

Homomorphic_Encryption.Example.Algorithm=Algorithms: BFV, CKKS

Homomorphic_Encryption.Example.Base=Under a homomorphic system supporting addition, two encrypted numbers can be added together by a party without the ability to decrypt them.  When the result of this computation is decrypted by a party with such ability, the answer will be the correct sum.

Homomorphic_Encryption.Example={Homomorphic_Encryption.Example.Algorithm}<br>{Homomorphic_Encryption.Example.Base} 

Homomorphic_Encryption.SeeAlso=Encryption

Homomorphic_Encryption.=[G/responsible-data-use-policy/PrOb/RDSP-Def/Sec/Z/Sec.md]

Collation.Ti={Def.Collation.Target}

Collation.sec={_Collation} is the process of combining information from two or more {_Datasets} to create a new {_Dataset}.  {_Collation} can often improve the ability to achieve Pseudo-Anonymity as seen through {_k-anonymity} or {_l-diversity} measures.  {_Collation} can also reduce the impact of {_Training_Data_Bias} by increasing the sample size or diversity of certain Attributes or outcomes.

Collation.Example=Five companies pool their hiring data together to create a larger {_Dataset} of candidates and employee history.  {_Models} trained from this collated {_Dataset} are less likely to reproduce any bias in the decisions of a single company’s hiring process, and higher degrees of differential privacy are more likely to be obtained.

Collation.=[G/responsible-data-use-policy/PrOb/RDSP-Def/Sec/Z/Sec.md]

Aggregation.Ti={Def.Aggregation.Target}

Aggregation.sec={_Aggregation} is the process of combining information from two or more {_Data_Subjects}.   In the case of {_Aggregation} with {_Data_Subjects}, {_Aggregation} is typically combined with functions such as a count, sum, average (mean), median, minimum, maximum, range, standard deviation, or other statistical function.

Aggregation.Example.Implementation=Example Implementations: SQL GROUP BY statements, split-apply-combine patterns, map-reduce patterns

Aggregation.Example.Base=A {_Dataset} contains the age and country of residence of individuals.  Individuals are grouped by their country of residence and then the average age within each group is calculated.  Each individual’s age could then be replaced with their respective average for their country of residence.

Aggregation.Synonyms=binning, bucketing

Aggregation.Example={Aggregation.Example.Implementation}<br>{Aggregation.Example.Base} 

Aggregation.=[G/responsible-data-use-policy/PrOb/RDSP-Def/Sec/Z/Sec.md]

Frequency_Distribution.Ti={Def.Frequency_Distribution.Target}

Frequency_Distribution.sec=Frequency Distribution is a {_Pseudo-Anonymization} technique that is typically used to transform character- or binary-based information into a list of unique elements and the number of times each element occurs.  Common elements include single characters, single words (tokens), single bytes, or tuples of consecutive words (n-grams).  In cases where n-grams are used, Personnel should consider whether increasing n can decrease the pseudo-anonymity of the resulting feature data.

Frequency_Distribution.Synonym=histogram, distribution, frequency table

Frequency_Distribution.Example=A {_Dataset} contains the text of an email from one individual to another that reads “We can get lunch tomorrow so we can talk.”  The text is replaced with the frequency distribution count(we)=2, count(can)=2, count(get)=1, count(lunch)=1, count(tomorrow)=1, count(so)=1, count(talk).

Frequency_Distribution.=[G/responsible-data-use-policy/PrOb/RDSP-Def/Sec/Z/Sec.md]

Embeddings_and_Transformers.Ti={Def.Embeddings.Target} and {Def.Transformers.Target}
{_Embeddings} and {_Transformers} are {_Pseudo-Anonymization} techniques that are typically used to transform higher-dimensional data such as images or text into lower-dimensional representations for subsequent clustering or classification.  Many common embedding or transformer models are either fully or partially pre-trained.  Personnel should take care to ensure that any pre-trained models used do not violate this Policy or related Procedures.

Embeddings_and_Transformers.Example=A {_Dataset} contains the text of resume biographies received from applicants.  The text of each biography is replaced by a vector corresponding to the sum of GLoVe vectors for all words in the biography.

Embeddings_and_Transformers.=[G/responsible-data-use-policy/PrOb/RDSP-Def/Sec/Z/Sec.md]

sec={Intro.sec}<ol><li>{Deletion.Sec}</li><li>{Masking.Sec}</li><li>{Shuffling.Sec}</li><li>{Rounding.Sec}</li><li>{Flooring.Sec}</li><li>{Ceiling.Sec}</li><li>{Truncation.Sec}</li><li>{Rank.Sec}</li><li>{Percentile_or_Quantile.Sec}</li><li>{Parametric_Normalization.Sec}</li><li>{Hashing.Sec}</li><li>{Cryptographic_Hashing.Sec}</li><li>{Encryption.Sec}</li><li>{Homomorphic_Encryption.Sec}</li><li>{Collation.Sec}</li><li>{Aggregation.Sec}</li><li>{Frequency_Distribution.Sec}</li><li>{Embeddings_and_Transformers.Sec}</li></ol>

=[G/Z/Base]
