------------------------------------INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY MASTER AGREEMENT

Doc.Ti=Information Technology Master Agreement

This.1.sec=This {Doc.Ti} (this “{Def.Agreement.sec}”) is made as of {EffectiveDate.YMD} (the “{Def.Effective_Date.sec}”) by and between {Customer.US.N,E,A}, (“{Def.Customer.sec}”) and {Vendor.US.N,E,A} (“{Def.Vendor.sec}”).

This.2.sec=This <a href="#Def.Agreement.sec" class="definedterm">Agreement</a> consists of Parts I through III below, Attachment A, and any <a href='#Def.Addendum.sec' class='definedterm'>Addendum</a> (as defined below) executed by the parties, including any attachments to such <a href='#Def.Addendum.sec' class='definedterm'>Addendums</a>.

This.Sec={This.sec}

This.=[G/Z/para/s2]

1.sec=The parties have agreed that <a href='#Def.Vendor.sec' class='definedterm'>Vendor</a> will provide <a href='#Def.Customer.sec' class='definedterm'>Customer</a> with certain technology products and/or services and that <a href='#Def.Customer.sec' class='definedterm'>Customer</a> will pay <a href='#Def.Vendor.sec' class='definedterm'>Vendor</a> certain fees.

2.sec=Therefore, in consideration of the covenants, agreements and promises set forth below, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree as set forth in the pages that follow.

GeneralTerm.Def.Sec={Def.Sec}

GeneralTerm.Def.Xnum=<a href="#Def.Sec" class="xref">1</a>

Def.=[G/TechContractsCom-ITMA-CmA/Sec/GeneralTerm/Def/0.md]

=[G/Agt-Form-CmA/US/Frame/Customer-Vendor/0.md]

=[G/Z/ol/s2]

Annex.sec=<ol type="I"><li>{GeneralTerm.Sec}<li>{AnnexSoftSaaS.Sec}<li>{AnnexService.Sec}<li>{Addendum.Sec}</ol>

GeneralTerm.=[G/TechContractsCom-ITMA-CmA/Form/GeneralTerms/0.md]

AnnexSoftSaaS.=[G/TechContractsCom-ITMA-CmA/Form/SoftSaaS/0.md]

AnnexService.=[G/TechContractsCom-ITMA-CmA/Form/Services/0.md]

Addendum.=[G/TechContractsCom-ITMA-CmA/Form/Addendum/0.md]

/=Sections:

Def.Xnum=<a href="#Def.Sec" class="xref">1</a>

GeneralTerm.Xnum=<a href="#GeneralTerm.Sec" class="xref">Part I</a>

GeneralTerm.Jobs.Xnum=<a href="#GeneralTerm.Jobs.Sec" class="xref">2</a>

GeneralTerm.AcceptReject.Xnum=<a href="#GeneralTerm.AcceptReject.Sec" class="xref">3</a>

GeneralTerm.IndependentContractor.Xnum=<a href="#GeneralTerm.IndependentContractor.Sec" class="xref">4</a>

GeneralTerm.Conf.Xnum=<a href="#GeneralTerm.Conf.Sec" class="xref">5</a>

GeneralTerm.Data.Xnum=<a href="#GeneralTerm.Data.Sec" class="xref">6</a>

GeneralTerm.Audit.Xnum=<a href="#GeneralTerm.Audit.Sec" class="xref">7</a>

GeneralTerm.VendorWarranty.Xnum=<a href="#GeneralTerm.VendorWarranty.Sec" class="xref">8</a>

GeneralTerm.Indemnity.Xnum=<a href="#GeneralTerm.Indemnity.Sec" class="xref">9</a>

GeneralTerm.LimitLiability.Xnum=<a href="#GeneralTerm.LimitLiability.Sec" class="xref">10</a>

GeneralTerm.Insure.Xnum=<a href="#GeneralTerm.Insure.Sec" class="xref">11</a>

GeneralTerm.Life.Xnum=<a href="#GeneralTerm.Life.Sec" class="xref">12</a>

GeneralTerm.Misc.Xnum=<a href="#GeneralTerm.Misc.Sec" class="xref">13</a>


AnnexSoftSaaS.Xnum=<a href="#AnnexSoftSaaS.Sec" class="xref">Part II</a> 

AnnexSoftSaaS.License.Xnum=<a href="#AnnexSoftSaaS.License.Sec" class="xref">14</a>

AnnexSoftSaaS.ServiceLevel.Xnum=<a href="#AnnexSoftSaaS.ServiceLevel.Sec" class="xref">15</a>

AnnexSoftSaaS.Before-Go-Live.Xnum=<a href="#AnnexSoftSaaS.Before-Go-Live.Sec" class="xref">16</a>
  
AnnexSoftSaaS.Warranty.Xnum=<a href="#AnnexSoftSaaS.Warranty.Sec" class="xref">17</a>


AnnexService.Manager.Xnum=<a href='#AnnexService.Manager.Sec' class='xref'>18</a>

AnnexService.Expense.Xnum=<a href='#AnnexService.Expense.Sec' class='xref'>19</a>

AnnexService.Deliverable.Xnum=<a href='#AnnexService.Deliverable.Sec' class='xref'>20</a>

AnnexService.Warranty.Xnum=<a href='#AnnexService.Warranty.Sec' class='xref'>21</a>

AnnexService.NonSolicitation.Xnum=<a href='#AnnexService.NonSolicitation.Sec' class='xref'>22</a>

AnnexService.VendorPersonnel.Xmum=<a href='#AnnexService.VendorPersonnel.Sec' class='xref'>23</a>

AnnexService.Insure.Xnum=<a href='#AnnexService.Insure.Sec' class='xref'>24</a>




NoteTi=Customer’s ITMA (Information Technology Master Agreement)

Note1=Licensed Software, SaaS, Professional Services, or any Combo of the Three; Customer’s Form Contract; Customer-Friendly; Accommodates Multiple Projects/Licenses/SoW’s; Ink Signature

Note2=IMPORTANT NOTICE: This form has multiple moving pieces, so review thoroughly. It serves as a single form for all of a customer’s licensed software, SaaS, and IT professional services deals. Part I applies to all products/services, Part II only to licensed software and SaaS, and Part III only to professional services. You designate the product(s) or service(s) being bought in each Addendum, and you can have one or many.

Note3=You may use the form contract below subject to the “Terms of Use” posted at http://techcontracts.com/privacy/. In addition to the Terms of Use, PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING DISCLAIMER BEFORE USING THE FORM CONTRACT:

Note4=NEITHER THE AUTHOR NOR THE PUBLISHER REPRESENTS THAT THE FORM CONTRACT BELOW WILL MEET YOUR SPECIFIC GOALS, PROTECT YOUR SPECIFIC INTERESTS, OR WITHSTAND CHALLENGES TO ITS LEGAL OR FACTUAL SUFFICIENCY. The form contract below is general in nature and may not be sufficient for a specific contractual, technological, or legal problem or dispute.

Note5=THE FORM IS NOT PROVIDED WITH ANY GUARANTY, WARRANTY, OR REPRESENTATION AS TO QUALITY OR SUITABILITY FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Publication of the form does not constitute the practice of law and is not legal counsel or advice. Neither the author nor the publisher of The Tech Contracts Handbook, nor anyone affiliated with the book’s Website, is rendering a legal or other professional service. The form should not be relied upon as a substitute for consultation with an attorney.

Note6=N/A: Note that this document uses Microsoft Word multi-level bullets/numbering for section numbers and cross-referencing features for section references. Please delete all text above the following dotted line, as well as the line itself and the page-break following it, before using this form.