Ti=Section 6: Amendments

1.Ti=Article 1: Non-Amendable Articles

1.1.sec=Section 1 (Rights), Articles 1 and 2 cannot be amended.

1.2.sec=Section 6 (Amendments), Articles 1 and 2 cannot be amended.

1.=[G/Z/ol-II/s2]

2.Ti=Article 2: 30 Year Review of the Constitution

2.1.sec=Every 30th year the Constitution of Mars will be reviewed;

2.2.sec=The review takes place in a special “30 year mini-public”;

2.3.sec=The “30 year mini-public” shall be made of 250 members, randomly selected with a stratified sample (as detailed in Section 1, Article 3) overseen by the Governmental Oversight mini-public;

2.4.0.sec=The process of the “30 year mini-public” will begin 28 years after the last iteration of this type of constitutional review. It will follow this timeline:

2.4.1.sec=Early in the 28th year, the process of selection for the mini-public will be released to the public, who can provide feedback on the criteria considered;

2.4.2.sec=Early in the 29th year, the citizens who will be in this mini-public shall be selected.

2.4.3.sec=These citizens’ names shall be available to the public.

2.4.4.sec=After their names are revealed, these citizens shall undergo extensive legal training to understand Constitutional Law. Their interactions with any interest groups shall be reported to and monitored by the Governmental Oversight body;

2.4.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s4]

2.5.sec=The purpose of this mini-public is to propose constitutional amendments that the public shall decide on;

2.6.sec=The ordinary mini-publics can inform and give advice to this “30 year mini-public”;

2.7.sec=The proposed constitutional amendment(s) shall be backed by 50% of the votes in the “30 year mini-public”;

2.8.sec=Before an amendment can be brought to the public, an amendment must be reviewed by legal experts to ensure that it is not contradictory with the limited scope of Amendments;

2.9.sec=The public will vote on constitutional amendment(s) via referendum. For an amendment to be passed, it must receive 60% of the votes

2.=[G/Z/ol-II/s9]

3.Ti=Article 3: Citizens’ Initiatives (Direct Wording)

3.1.sec=Citizens shall have the right to create an initiative for a new amendment anytime;

3.2.sec=Any citizen may create a petition with a specific wording for an amendment. To receive consideration, the petition must garner 5% of the population’s signatures. The process of gathering signatures must be reviewed and approved by the Governmental Oversight mini-public;

3.3.sec=Before an amendment can be brought to the public for referendum, it must be reviewed by legal experts to ensure that it is not contradictory with the limited scope of Amendments;

3.4.sec=Citizens shall have six months to consider the proposal;

3.5.sec=Citizens will vote on the amendment proposals in a national referendum. For an amendment proposal to be passed, it must receive 60% of the public vote. This process shall be reviewed by the Governmental Oversight mini-public.

3.=[G/Z/ol-II/s5]

4.Ti=Article 4: Citizens’ Initiative (Subject Area)

4.1.sec=Citizens shall have the right to create an initiative for a new amendment anytime;

4.2.sec=Any citizen may create a petition proposing a new amendment in a certain subject area. To receive consideration, the petition must garner 5% of the population’s signatures. The process of gathering signatures must be reviewed and approved by the Governmental Oversight mini-public;

4.3.sec=Once a petition has passed the threshold of 5%, it shall spur the creation of an ad-hoc mini public dedicated to drafting amendment(s) based on the petition’s subject area;

4.4.sec=The ad-hoc mini public shall be made of 250 members, randomly selected with a stratified sample (as detailed in Section 1, Article 3) overseen by the Governmental Oversight mini-public;

4.5.sec=The ad-hoc mini public will have a year to create amendment proposals. Each amendment proposal must be related to the topics in the citizens’ petition (and if the amendment’s relation to the citizens’ petition is not clear, it must be explained);

4.6.0.sec=Before an amendment proposal is presented to the public via a national referendum, two things must happen:

4.6.1.sec=The ad-hoc mini-public must vote on the proposal. Any proposal which receives a 50% vote within the mini-public may be brought to referendum;

4.6.2.sec=The amendment must be reviewed by legal experts to ensure that it is not contradictory with the limited scope of Amendments;

4.6.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s2]

4.7.sec=This system allows for multiple related amendment proposals, which must all be voted on during the same time period;

4.8.sec=Once amendment proposals are brought to the public, the ad-hoc mini-public shall release neutral, fact-based information about the different proposals;

4.9.sec=Citizens shall have six months to consider the proposals prior to the vote;

4.10.sec=Citizens will vote on the amendment proposals in a national referendum. For an amendment proposal to be passed, it must receive a 60% of the public vote. This process shall be reviewed by the Governmental Oversight mini-public.

4.=[G/Z/ol-II/s10]

=[G/Z/ol/4]
