EXHIBIT 1 - 

Ti=Description of the {_Processing}

0.sec={_Mistral_AI} may update the description of the {_Processing} from time to time to reflect new {_Services}, features or functionality.

1.sec={_Mistral_AI} privacy contact: privacy@mistral.ai

2.sec=Categories of {_Data_Subjects}: the {_Customer}, the Authorized Users and any other natural person whose {_Personal_Data} is used by the {_Customer} or the Authorized User as a Prompt

3.sec=Categories of {_Personal_Data}: the {_Customer}’s account data, the {_Customer}’s {_Mistral_AI} ID (unique User ID attributed by {_Mistral_AI}), the API Key, the Prompts (date and hour of the Prompt, content of the Prompt, etc.), the Outputs (date and hour of the Output, content of the Output, etc.), any {_Personal_Data} that is used by the {_Customer} to generate an Output and/or that may be accessed by Mistral Ai as part of the Technical Support.

4.sec=Special categories of {_Personal_Data}: None. {_Customer} shall not process sensitive data under this {_DPA}. In case {_Customer} wishes to process sensitive data, please contact privacy@mistral.ai

5.sec={_Authorized_Purposes}: the provision of the API {_Services} (Technical Support, Generation of Outputs}.

6.sec=Duration of the {_Processing}: the term of this {_DPA}

7.0.sec=Retention Periods:

7.1.sec=The Prompts and the Outputs are only processed by {_Mistral_AI} for the duration of the generation of the Outputs.

7.2.sec={_Mistral_AI} may process the Prompts and the Outputs as a {_Data_Controller}. The applicable retention periods are mentioned on the Privacy Policy.

7.3.sec=The {_Personal_Data} provided by {_Mistral_AI} for the purpose of technical support are stored for the duration necessary to process the technical support request, and for five (5) additional years for evidential purposes.

7.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s3]

8.0.sec={_Sub-processors}:

8.1.sec=Azure: our hosting provider. The {_Personal_Data} are stored in Sweden.

8.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s1]

=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s8]

