Ti=Miscellaneous

IndependentContractor.Ti=Independent Contractors

IndependentContractor.sec=The parties are independent contractors and will so represent themselves in all regards. Neither party is the agent of the other, and neither may make commitments on the other’s behalf. The parties agree that no {_Provider} employee or contractor will be an employee of {_Customer}.

Notice.Ti=Notices

Note="sent. . " HAS BEEN CHANGED to "sent."

Notice.sec={_Provider} may send notices pursuant to this {_Agreement} to {_Customer}’s email contact points provided by {_Customer}, and such notices will be deemed received 24 hours after they are sent. {_Customer} may send notices pursuant to this {_Agreement} to {Provider.Notice.Adr.cl}, and such notices will be deemed received 72 hours after they are sent. In addition, {_Customer} is on notice and agrees that: (a) for claims of copyright infringement, the complaining party may contact {Copyright.Notice.Adr.cl}; and (b) {_Provider} will terminate the accounts of subscribers who are repeat copyright infringers.

ForceMajeure.Ti=Force Majeure

ForceMajeure.sec=No delay, failure, or default, other than a failure to pay fees when due, will constitute a breach of this {_Agreement} to the extent caused by epidemics, acts of war, terrorism, hurricanes, earthquakes, other acts of God or of nature, strikes or other labor disputes, riots or other acts of civil disorder, embargoes, government orders responding to any of the foregoing, or other causes beyond the performing party’s reasonable control.

Assign.Ti=Assignment & Successors

Assign.sec={_Customer} may not assign this {_Agreement} or any of its rights or obligations hereunder without {_Provider}’s express written consent. Except to the extent forbidden in this Section {Assign.Xnum}, this {_Agreement} will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties’ respective successors and assigns.

Sever.Ti=Severability

Sever.sec=To the extent permitted by applicable law, the parties hereby waive any provision of law that would render any clause of this {_Agreement} invalid or otherwise unenforceable in any respect. In the event that a provision of this {_Agreement} is held to be invalid or otherwise unenforceable, such provision will be interpreted to fulfill its intended purpose to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, and the remaining provisions of this {_Agreement} will continue in full force and effect.

Waive.Ti=No Waiver

Waive.sec=Neither party will be deemed to have waived any of its rights under this {_Agreement} by lapse of time or by any statement or representation other than by an authorized representative in an explicit written waiver. No waiver of a breach of this {_Agreement} will constitute a waiver of any other breach of this {_Agreement}.

LawAndForum.Ti=Choice of Law & Jurisdiction

LawAndForum.sec=This {_Agreement} will be governed solely by the internal laws of {Law.State.the}, including applicable U.S. federal law, without reference to: (a) any conflicts of law principle that would apply the substantive laws of another jurisdiction to the parties’ rights or duties; (b) the 1980 United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods; or (c) other international laws. The parties consent to the personal and exclusive jurisdiction of {Dispute.Forum.cl}. This Section {LawAndForum.Xnum} governs all claims arising out of or related to this {_Agreement}, including without limitation tort claims.

PriorityOverPolicy.Ti=Conflicts

PriorityOverPolicy.sec=In the event of any conflict between this {_Agreement} and any {_Provider} policy posted online, including without limitation the {_AUP}, the terms of this {_Agreement} will govern.

Construe.Ti=Construction

Construe.sec=The parties agree that the terms of this {_Agreement} result from negotiations between them. This {_Agreement} will not be construed in favor of or against either party by reason of authorship.

ExportControl.Ti=Technology Export

ExportControl.sec={_Customer} shall not: (a) permit any third party to access or use the {_SaaS} in violation of any U.S. law or regulation; or (b) export any software provided by {_Provider} or otherwise remove it from the United States except in compliance with all applicable U.S. laws and regulations. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, {_Customer} shall not permit any third party to access or use the {_SaaS} in, or export such software to, a country subject to a United States embargo (as of the {_Effective_Date}, Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Sudan, and Syria).

EntireAgreement.Ti=Entire {_Agreement}

EntireAgreement.sec=This {_Agreement} sets forth the entire agreement of the parties and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous writings, negotiations, and discussions with respect to its subject matter. Neither party has relied upon any such prior or contemporaneous communications.

Amend.Ti=Amendment

Amend.sec={_Provider} may amend this {_Agreement} from time to time by posting an amended version at its Website and sending {_Customer} written notice thereof. Such amendment will be deemed accepted and become effective 30 days after such notice (the “{Def.Proposed_Amendment_Date.Target}”) unless {_Customer} first gives {_Provider} written notice of rejection of the amendment. In the event of such rejection, this {_Agreement} will continue under its original provisions, and the amendment will become effective at the start of {_Customer}’s next {_Term} following the {_Proposed_Amendment_Date} (unless {_Customer} first terminates this {_Agreement} pursuant to Article {Life.Xnum}, {Life.Ti}). {_Customer}’s continued use of the {_SaaS} following the effective date of an amendment will confirm {_Customer}’s consent thereto. This {_Agreement} may not be amended in any other way except through a written agreement by authorized representatives of each party. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section {Amend.Xnum}, {_Provider} may revise the {_AUP} at any time by posting a new version of either at the Website, and such new version will become effective on the date it is posted; provided if such amendment materially reduces {_Customer}’s rights or protections, notice and consent will be subject to the requirements above in this Section {Amend.Xnum}.

IndependentContractor.=[G/Z/Base]
Notice.=[G/Z/Base]
ForceMajeure.=[G/Z/Base]
Assign.=[G/Z/Base]
Sever.=[G/Z/Base]
Waive.=[G/Z/Base]
LawAndForum.=[G/Z/Base]
PriorityOverPolicy.=[G/Z/Base]
Construe.=[G/Z/Base]
ExportControl.=[G/Z/Base]
EntireAgreement.=[G/Z/Base]
Amend.=[G/Z/Base]

sec=<ol><li>{IndependentContractor.Sec}</li><li>{Notice.Sec}</li><li>{ForceMajeure.Sec}</li><li>{Assign.Sec}</li><li>{Sever.Sec}</li><li>{Waive.Sec}</li><li>{LawAndForum.Sec}</li><li>{PriorityOverPolicy.Sec}</li><li>{Construe.Sec}</li><li>{ExportControl.Sec}</li><li>{EntireAgreement.Sec}</li><li>{Amend.Sec}</li></ol>

=[G/Z/Base]
