Note=This file is presented in roughly the order in which the page is built.  The "Model.Root" is what begins expansion.  It expands into "Doc":

Model.Root={Doc}

Note=Doc expands into the basic divisions.  Head is the header, Among lists the parties, This is for "This agreement ...", Why is the Whereas clauses, That declares that the parties agree ..., Sec is for the agreement sections, By is for signature, and Annex for any Exhibits, Attachments, Schedules, etc.: 

Doc={Head.Div}{Among.Div}{This.Div}{Why.Div}{That.Div}{Sec.Div}{By.Div}{Annex.Div}

Note=The Head of the agreement has a place for a document number or comment, and a centered heading.  The centered heading has the document name, date, parties.

Head.Div={Head.Message}<center>{Head.Sec}</center><br><br>

Head.Message=<font color="grey">GUID: {Doc.GUID}</font>

Head.Sec=<h4>{Doc.Ti}</h4>{Head.sec}

Head.sec={Head.PartyList}<br>{Head.EffectiveDate.sec}

Note="Effective Date" is meant as a defined term.  We parameterize defined terms using a convention of preceding the defined term with an underscore.  The parameterized term has a hyperlink to the definition in the document.  This makes it i) easier to read, ii) harder to use but not define a term and iii) removes an ambiguity that the term is  meant for its defined meaning.  We recommend Title Case for defined terms and replacing spaces in the Defined Term with underscores in the {_Defined_Term}. 

Head.EffectiveDate.sec={_Effective_Date}: {EffectiveDate.YMD}

Note=The number of parties is usually only two, but it is possible that there are more.  We provide for up to 5 parties, but more can be added on the same pattern.  First a line for each of up to five parties, then combinations for 1-2, 1-3, 1-4, 1-5 parties.  The words "and" and "or" in the lists are parameterized to allow completion in the desired language.  In English {or} is completed by or=or, but in French would be or=ou. The same with {q} for the Oxford comma.  The Oxford comma is preferred in some English language writing, but not all, and is never used in French and some other languages.  To have an Oxford comma - q=, and to not have it use a dummy string that does not show in the document e.g., q=</i>. 

Head.PartyList={Head.PartyList/2}

Head.PartyList/2={P1.Name.Full}<br>{P2.Name.Full}

Head.PartyList/3={P1.Name.Full}<br>{P2.Name.Full}<br>{P3.Name.Full}

Head.PartyList/4={P1.Name.Full}<br>{P2.Name.Full}<br>{P3.Name.Full}<br>{P4.Name.Full}

Head.PartyList/5={P1.Name.Full}<br>{P2.Name.Full}<br>{P3.Name.Full}<br>{P4.Name.Full}<br>{P5.Name.Full}

PartyList.cl/-2/-and={P1.Name.Full} {and} {P3.Name.Full}

PartyList.cl/-3/-and={P1.Name.Full}, {P2.Name.Full}{q} {and} {P3.Name.Full}

PartyList.cl/-4/-and={P1.Name.Full}, {P2.Name.Full}, {P3.Name.Full}{q} {and} {P4.Name.Full}

PartyList.cl/-5/-and={P1.Name.Full}, {P2.Name.Full}, {P3.Name.Full}, {P4.Name.Full}{q} {and} {P5.Name.Full}

PartyList.cl/-2/-or={P1.Name.Full} {or} {P3.Name.Full}

PartyList.cl/-3/-or={P1.Name.Full}, {P2.Name.Full}{q} {or} {P3.Name.Full}

PartyList.cl/-4/-or={P1.Name.Full}, {P2.Name.Full}, {P3.Name.Full}{q} {or} {P4.Name.Full}

PartyList.cl/-5/-or={P1.Name.Full}, {P2.Name.Full}, {P3.Name.Full}, {P4.Name.Full}{q} {or} {P5.Name.Full}

Note=Within a document, each party can be referred to by its handle.  Again, we suggest the convention of underscore.  It is of course also possible to have P1.Handle={_Buyer} or other meaningful name, or to assign _P1={_Buyer}.

P1.Handle={_P1}

P2.Handle={_P2}

P3.Handle={_P3}

P4.Handle={_P4}

P5.Handle={_P5}

Note=The Parties division identifies the parties.  It also can identify some other persons (friends) who are important to the contract and mentioned in it, such as subsidiaries, a agent, a broker or insurer:

Among.Div={Among.Sec}{Friends.Div}<br>

Among.Ti={Among.Ti/2}

Among.Sec=<b>{Among.Ti}</b><br>{Among.secs}{Among.Def.sec}

Among.secs={Among.secs/2}

Note=Friends.Div is for documents that need to list other persons, for instance affiliates of one of the parties.  Defaults to null.  To use it, define a paragraph with the desired number of referenced persons in the format "Friend.=[OTF/Z/ol/s*]" where * is the number of persons, e.g, "Friend.=[OTF/Z/ol/s3]".  This uses the common paragraph format widget.

Friends.Div=</i>

Friend.Ti=Affiliated persons referenced in this {_Agreement}:

Friend.00.sec={Friend.Def.sec}

Note=This.* is the part that usually starts with "This Agreement ...."

This.Div=<br>{This.Sec}<br>

This.Sec={This.sec}

This.sec={This.sec/2}

Note=Why.* is the Recitals section.  It gives background and objectives. 

Why.Div=<br><br>{Why.Sec}<br>

Why.Sec=<b>{Why.Ti}</b><br>{Why.sec}

Note=That.* is the part that often says "The parties therefore ...."
 
That.Div=<br>{That.Sec}<br>

That.Sec={That.sec}

Note=Sec.* is the sections of the agreement - the principal text.  There is an option for a heading, but that is rare.  We also include a default set of top-level subject matter divisions.  Sec.Div defaults to Sec - which makes it easy to use the large set of paragraph widgets.

Sec.Div=<br>{Sec}<br>

Sec={sec}

Note=An example of how sections can be named, and used or not used.

sec/Base=<ol>{Param.LI}{Provision.LI}{Def.LI}</ol>

Provision.LI={Deal.LI}{Cov.LI}{Cond.LI}{Rep.LI}{Life.LI}{Claim.LI}{Misc.LI}

Note=By.* is for signature.  It often starts with a statement that the parties adopt the text as their agreement. The default is for two parties.

By.Div=<br>{By.Sec}<br>

By.Sec=<b>{By.Ti}</b><br>{By.sec}

By.sec={By.0.sec}<br>{By.secs}

By.secs={By.secs/2}

Note=Annex.* is for any Exhibits, Attachments, Schedules or Annexes.  If there are a number of them, you can list them, or use a paragraph widget (Z/ol/...).  
 
Annex.Div=<hr><hr>{Annex.Sec}

Annex.Sec=<b><center>{Annex.Ti}</center></b><br>{Annex.sec}

Note=The Oxford comma.  Establishing the default as no such comma.  But can override in your documents.

q=</i>

Xnum=??Xnum-FromForm