Ti=No sales into the United States, Canada, Australia, or Japan, or in any other jurisdiction in which such distribution would be prohibited by applicable law.

1.Ti=IMPORTANT INFORMATION

1.1.sec=FOR FURTHER INFORMATION ON THIS TRANSACTION, PLEASE CALL YOUR REGULAR CONTACT AT THE JOINT BOOKRUNNERS OR THE CO-MANAGERS (TOGETHER, THE “MANAGERS”).

1.2.sec=THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS TERM SHEET IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE UP UNTIL THE CLOSING DATE. THIS DOCUMENT IS NOT AN OFFERING CIRCULAR OR PROSPECTUS AND IS BEING FURNISHED TO YOU SOLELY FOR YOUR INFORMATION AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED, REDISTRIBUTED OR MADE AVAILABLE IN WHOLE OR IN PART TO ANY OTHER PERSON FOR ANY PURPOSE, WITHOUT THE PRIOR CONSENT OF THE MANAGERS.

1.3.sec=NO PROSPECTUS IS REQUIRED IN ACCORDANCE WITH DIRECTIVE 2003/71/EC (AS AMENDED) (THE “PROSPECTUS DIRECTIVE”) IN CONNECTION WITH THE ISSUE AND OFFERING OF THE SECURITIES (AS DEFINED BELOW). THIS DOCUMENT IS DIRECTED EXCLUSIVELY AT MARKET PROFESSIONALS AND INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS AND IS FOR INFORMATION PURPOSES ONLY AND IS NOT TO BE RELIED UPON IN SUBSTITUTION FOR THE EXERCISE OF INDEPENDENT JUDGEMENT. IT IS NOT INTENDED AS INVESTMENT ADVICE AND UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES IS IT TO BE USED OR CONSIDERED AS AN OFFER TO SELL, OR A SOLICITATION OF AN OFFER TO BUY, ANY SECURITY NOR IS IT A RECOMMENDATION TO BUY OR SELL ANY SECURITY.

1.4.sec=ANY DECISION TO PURCHASE ANY OF THE BONDS AND/OR THE SHARES TO BE ISSUED UPON CONVERSION OF THE BONDS (TOGETHER, THE “SECURITIES”) SHOULD ONLY BE MADE ON THE BASIS OF AN INDEPENDENT REVIEW BY YOU OF THE ISSUER’S PUBLICLY AVAILABLE INFORMATION. NEITHER OF THE MANAGERS NOR ANY OF THEIR AFFILIATES ACCEPT ANY LIABILITY ARISING FROM THE USE OF, OR MAKE ANY REPRESENTATION AS TO THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF, THIS DOCUMENT OR THE ISSUER’S PUBLICLY AVAILABLE INFORMATION.

1.5.sec=THIS DOCUMENT IS NOT FOR DISTRIBUTION, DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY IN OR INTO THE UNITED STATES (AS DEFINED IN REGULATION S UNDER THE US SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (“US SECURITIES ACT”)). THE SECURITIES HAVE NOT BEEN AND WILL NOT BE REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT AND MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD OR DELIVERED WITHIN THE UNITED STATES. THIS ANNOUNCEMENT DOES NOT CONSTITUTE AN OFFER TO SELL OR THE SOLICITATION OF AN OFFER TO BUY, NOR SHALL THERE BE ANY SALE OF THE SECURITIES IN ANY STATE IN WHICH SUCH OFFER, SOLICITATION OR SALE WOULD BE UNLAWFUL. THERE WILL BE NO PUBLIC OFFER OF THE SECURITIES IN THE UNITED STATES OR IN ANY OTHER JURISDICTION.

1.6.sec=EACH PERSON RECEIVING THIS DOCUMENT SHOULD CONSULT HIS/HER PROFESSIONAL ADVISER TO ASCERTAIN THE SUITABILITY OF THE SECURITIES AS AN INVESTMENT. FOR THE AVOIDANCE OF DOUBT, NEITHER THE ISSUER NOR THE MANAGERS MAKE ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY THAT THEY INTEND TO ACCEPT OR BE BOUND TO ANY OF THE TERMS HEREIN NOR SHALL THE ISSUER OR THE MANAGERS BE OBLIGED TO ENTER INTO ANY FURTHER DISCUSSIONS OR NEGOTIATIONS PURSUANT HERETO, BUT THEY SHALL BE ENTITLED IN THEIR ABSOLUTE DISCRETION TO ACT IN ANY WAY THAT THEY SEE FIT IN CONNECTION WITH THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION. THIS IS NOT AN OFFER TO SELL, NOR A SOLICITATION OF AN OFFER TO BUY, ANY SECURITIES, AND ANY DISCUSSIONS, NEGOTIATIONS OR OTHER COMMUNICATIONS THAT MAY BE ENTERED INTO, WHETHER IN CONNECTION WITH THE TERMS SET OUT HEREIN OR OTHERWISE, SHALL BE CONDUCTED SUBJECT TO CONTRACT. NO REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, IS OR WILL BE MADE AS TO, OR IN RELATION TO, AND NO RESPONSIBILITY OR LIABILITY IS OR WILL BE ACCEPTED THE MANAGERS OR BY ANY OF THEIR OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES OR AGENTS AS TO OR IN RELATION TO THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THIS DOCUMENT, PUBLICLY AVAILABLE INFORMATION ON THE ISSUER OR ANY OTHER WRITTEN OR ORAL INFORMATION MADE AVAILABLE TO ANY INTERESTED PARTY OR ITS ADVISERS AND ANY LIABILITY THEREFORE IS HEREBY EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMED.

1.7.sec=AN INVESTMENT IN THE BONDS INVOLVES A SIGNIFICANT DEGREE OF RISK. IN MAKING ANY DECISION TO PURCHASE THE BONDS, AN INVESTOR WILL BE DEEMED TO (A) HAVE SUCH BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL EXPERIENCE AS IS REQUIRED TO GIVE IT THE CAPACITY TO PROTECT ITS OWN INTERESTS IN CONNECTION WITH THE PURCHASE OF THE BONDS, (B) NOT RELY ON ANY INVESTIGATION THAT THE MANAGERS OR ANY OF THEIR AFFILIATES, OR ANY PERSON ACTING ON BEHALF OF ANY OF THE MANAGERS OR ANY OF THEIR AFFILIATES, MAY HAVE CONDUCTED WITH RESPECT TO THE ISSUER OR THE SECURITIES, (C) HAVE MADE ITS OWN INVESTMENT DECISION REGARDING THE BONDS BASED ON ITS OWN KNOWLEDGE AND INVESTIGATION OF THE ISSUER, THE TERMS OF THE BONDS AND THE SECURITIES, (D) RELY ON ITS OWN EXAMINATION OF THE ISSUER, ITS SUBSIDIARIES, THE SECURITIES AND THE TERMS OF THE PLACEMENT OF THE BONDS, INCLUDING THE MERITS AND RISKS INVOLVED, (E) MAKE ITS OWN ASSESSMENT OF THE ISSUER, ITS SUBSIDIARIES, THE BONDS AND THE TERMS OF THE PLACEMENT OF THE BONDS BASED ON THIS TERM SHEET AND SUCH OTHER INFORMATION AS IS PUBLICLY AVAILABLE AND AS IT DEEMS REASONABLY SUFFICIENT (WHICH SUCH INVESTOR IS DEEMED TO HAVE BEEN ABLE TO ACCESS, READ AND UNDERSTAND), AND (F) CONSULT ITS OWN INDEPENDENT ADVISERS OR OTHERWISE SATISFY ITSELF CONCERNING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ACCOUNTING, REGULATORY, TAX OR OTHER CONSEQUENCES IN THE LIGHT OF ITS PARTICULAR SITUATION UNDER THE LAWS OF ALL RELEVANT JURISDICTIONS GENERALLY. 

1.8.sec=THE MANAGERS AND THEIR SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES MAY PERFORM SERVICES FOR, OR SOLICIT BUSINESS FROM, THE ISSUER OR MEMBERS OF THE ISSUER’S GROUP, MAY MAKE MARKETS IN THE SECURITIES OF THE ISSUER OR MEMBERS OF THE ISSUER’S GROUP AND/OR HAVE A POSITION OR EFFECT TRANSACTIONS IN SUCH SECURITIES. COPIES OF THIS TERM SHEET ARE NOT BEING, AND MUST NOT BE, MAILED, OR OTHERWISE FORWARDED, DISTRIBUTED OR SENT IN, INTO OR FROM THE UNITED STATES OR ANY OTHER JURISDICTION IN WHICH SUCH MAILING WOULD BE ILLEGAL, OR TO PUBLICATIONS WITH A GENERAL CIRCULATION IN THOSE JURISDICTIONS, AND PERSONS RECEIVING THIS DOCUMENT (INCLUDING CUSTODIANS, NOMINEES AND TRUSTEES) MUST NOT MAIL OR OTHERWISE FORWARD, DISTRIBUTE OR SEND IT IN, INTO OR FROM THE UNITED STATES OR ANY OTHER JURISDICTION IN WHICH SUCH MAILING WOULD BE ILLEGAL OR TO PUBLICATIONS WITH A GENERAL CIRCULATION IN THOSE JURISDICTIONS. IN CONNECTION WITH THE OFFERING OF THE BONDS, THE MANAGERS AND ANY OF THEIR AFFILIATES ACTING AS AN INVESTOR FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT MAY TAKE UP BONDS AND IN THAT CAPACITY MAY RETAIN, PURCHASE OR SELL FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT SUCH SECURITIES AND ANY SECURITIES OF THE ISSUER OR RELATED INVESTMENTS, AND MAY OFFER OR SELL SUCH SECURITIES OR OTHER INVESTMENTS OTHERWISE THAN IN CONNECTION WITH THE OFFERING OF THE BONDS. THE MANAGERS DO NOT INTEND TO DISCLOSE THE EXTENT OF ANY SUCH INVESTMENT OR TRANSACTIONS OTHERWISE THAN IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANY LEGAL OR REGULATORY OBLIGATION TO DO SO. EACH PROSPECTIVE INVESTOR SHOULD PROCEED ON THE ASSUMPTION THAT IT MUST BEAR THE ECONOMIC RISK OF AN INVESTMENT IN THE SECURITIES FOR AN INDEFINITE PERIOD. NEITHER THE ISSUER NOR THE MANAGERS MAKES ANY REPRESENTATION AS TO (I) THE SUITABILITY OF THE SECURITIES FOR ANY PARTICULAR INVESTOR, (II) THE APPROPRIATE ACCOUNTING TREATMENT AND POTENTIAL TAX CONSEQUENCES OF INVESTING IN THE SECURITIES OR (III) THE FUTURE PERFORMANCE OF THE SECURITIES EITHER IN ABSOLUTE TERMS OR RELATIVE TO COMPETING INVESTMENTS (INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE ISSUER’S ABILITY TO REPAY OR REFINANCE THE SECURITIES AT ANY RELEVANT TIME).

1.9.sec=IN CONNECTION WITH THE OFFERING, THE MANAGERS OR THEIR SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES MAY, FOR THEIR OWN ACCOUNT, ENTER INTO ASSET SWAPS, CREDIT DERIVATIVES OR OTHER DERIVATIVE TRANSACTIONS RELATING TO THE SECURITIES AND/OR THE UNDERLYING SHARES AT THE SAME TIME AS THE OFFER AND SALE OF THE SECURITIES OR IN SECONDARY MARKET TRANSACTIONS. THE MANAGERS OR ANY OF THEIR AFFILIATES MAY FROM TIME TO TIME HOLD LONG OR SHORT POSITIONS IN OR BUY AND SELL SUCH SECURITIES OR DERIVATIVES OR THE UNDERLYING SHARES. NO DISCLOSURE WILL BE MADE OF ANY SUCH POSITIONS. THE AMOUNT OF ANY SUCH PURCHASES WILL BE DETERMINED AT THE TIME OF PRICING OF THE SECURITIES AND WILL BE SUBJECT TO TOTAL DEMAND RECEIVED AND FINAL ALLOCATIONS.

1.10.sec=THE MANAGERS ARE ACTING ON BEHALF OF THE ISSUER AND NO ONE ELSE IN CONNECTION WITH THE SECURITIES AND WILL NOT BE RESPONSIBLE TO ANY OTHER PERSON FOR PROVIDING THE PROTECTIONS AFFORDED TO CLIENTS OF THE MANAGERS, OR FOR PROVIDING ADVICE IN RELATION TO THE SECURITIES. EACH OF THE MANAGERS AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES MAY PERFORM SERVICES FOR OR SOLICIT BUSINESS FROM THE ISSUER AND/OR MEMBERS OF THE ISSUER’S GROUP, MAY MAKE MARKETS IN THE SECURITIES OF SUCH PERSONS AND/OR HAVE A POSITION OR EFFECT TRANSACTIONS IN SUCH SECURITIES.

1.11.sec=ANY ALLOCATION OF THE SECURITIES IS MADE EXPRESSLY SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND DISCLOSURE SET OUT IN THE LOAN AGREEMENT, AND ON THE CONDITION THAT ANY OFFERING OF THE SECURITIES COMPLETES AND THAT THE SECURITIES ARE ISSUED. IN PARTICULAR, IT SHOULD BE NOTED THAT ANY SUCH OFFERING AND FORMAL DOCUMENTATION RELATING THERETO WILL BE SUBJECT TO CONDITIONS PRECEDENT AND TERMINATION EVENTS, INCLUDING THOSE WHICH ARE CUSTOMARY FOR SUCH AN OFFERING. ANY SUCH OFFERING WILL NOT COMPLETE UNLESS SUCH CONDITIONS PRECEDENT ARE FULFILLED AND ANY SUCH TERMINATION EVENTS HAVE NOT TAKEN PLACE OR THE FAILURE TO FULFIL SUCH A CONDITION PRECEDENT OR THE OCCURRENCE OF A TERMINATION EVENT HAS BEEN WAIVED, IF APPLICABLE. THE MANAGERS RESERVES THE RIGHT TO EXERCISE OR REFRAIN FROM EXERCISING THEIR RIGHTS IN RELATION TO THE FULFILMENT OR OTHERWISE OF ANY SUCH CONDITION PRECEDENT OR THE OCCURRENCE OF ANY TERMINATION EVENT IN SUCH MANNER AS THEY MAY DETERMINE IN THEIR ABSOLUTE DISCRETION.

1.12.sec=NO ACTION HAS BEEN TAKEN BY THE ISSUER, THE MANAGERS OR ANY OF THEIR RESPECTIVE SUBSIDIARIES OR AFFILIATES THAT WOULD PERMIT AN OFFERING OF THE SECURITIES OR POSSESSION OR DISTRIBUTION OF THIS DOCUMENT OR ANY OFFERING OR PUBLICITY MATERIAL RELATING TO SUCH SECURITIES IN ANY JURISDICTION WHERE ACTION FOR THAT PURPOSE IS REQUIRED. PERSONS INTO WHOSE POSSESSION THIS DOCUMENT COMES ARE REQUIRED BY THE ISSUER AND THE MANAGERS TO INFORM THEMSELVES ABOUT AND TO OBSERVE ANY SUCH RESTRICTIONS.

1.=[Z/ol-none/s12]

2.Ti=EEA SELLING RESTRICTION AND DEEMED INVESTOR REPRESENTATIONS

2.1.sec=THIS DOCUMENT AND THE OFFER (WHEN MADE) ARE ONLY ADDRESSED TO AND DIRECTED AT RESIDENTS OF MEMBER STATES OF THE EUROPEAN ECONOMIC AREA WHICH HAVE IMPLEMENTED THE PROSPECTUS DIRECTIVE (EACH, A “RELEVANT MEMBER STATE”), AT PERSONS WHO ARE “QUALIFIED INVESTORS” WITHIN THE MEANING OF ARTICLE 2(1)(E) OF THE PROSPECTUS DIRECTIVE (DIRECTIVE 2003/71/EC) AND PURSUANT TO THE RELEVANT IMPLEMENTING RULES AND REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY EACH RELEVANT MEMBER STATE (“QUALIFIED INVESTORS”). 

2.2.sec=EACH PERSON WHO INITIALLY ACQUIRES ANY SECURITIES OR TO WHOM ANY OFFER OF SECURITIES MAY BE MADE WILL BE DEEMED TO HAVE REPRESENTED, ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED THAT IT IS A QUALIFIED INVESTOR. THIS DOCUMENT IS A FINANCIAL PROMOTION. IN THE UNITED KINGDOM, THIS DOCUMENT IS BEING DISTRIBUTED ONLY TO, AND IS DIRECTED ONLY AT, QUALIFIED INVESTORS (I) WHO HAVE PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE IN MATTERS RELATING TO INVESTMENTS FALLING WITHIN ARTICLE 19(5) OF THE FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS ACT 2000 (FINANCIAL PROMOTION) ORDER 2005, AS AMENDED (THE “ORDER”) OR (II) WHO FALL WITHIN ARTICLE 49(2)(A) TO (D) OF THE ORDER, AND (III) TO WHOM IT MAY OTHERWISE LAWFULLY BE COMMUNICATED (ALL SUCH PERSONS TOGETHER BEING REFERRED TO AS “RELEVANT PERSONS”). THIS DOCUMENT MUST NOT BE ACTED ON OR RELIED ON (I) IN THE UNITED KINGDOM, BY PERSONS WHO ARE NOT RELEVANT PERSONS, AND (II) IN ANY MEMBER STATE OF THE EUROPEAN ECONOMIC AREA OTHER THAN THE UNITED KINGDOM, BY PERSONS WHO ARE NOT QUALIFIED INVESTORS.

2.3.sec=IN THE CASE OF ANY SECURITIES BEING OFFERED TO YOU AS A FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARY (AS THAT TERM IS USED IN ARTICLE 3(2) OF THE PROSPECTUS DIRECTIVE), YOU WILL ALSO BE DEEMED TO HAVE REPRESENTED AND AGREED THAT THE SECURITIES ACQUIRED BY YOU IN THE OFFERING HAVE NOT BEEN ACQUIRED ON BEHALF OF PERSONS IN THE EEA OTHER THAN QUALIFIED INVESTORS FOR WHOM YOU HAVE AUTHORITY TO MAKE DECISIONS ON A WHOLLY DISCRETIONARY BASIS, NOR HAVE THE SECURITIES BEEN ACQUIRED WITH A VIEW TO THEIR OFFER OR RESALE IN THE EEA WHERE THIS WOULD RESULT IN A REQUIREMENT FOR PUBLICATION BY THE ISSUER AND THE MANAGER OR ANY OTHER MANAGER OF A PROSPECTUS PURSUANT TO ARTICLE 3 OF THE PROSPECTUS DIRECTIVE, OR IN WHICH THE PRIOR CONSENT OF THE MANAGERS HAS BEEN OBTAINED TO SUCH OFFER OR RESALE.

2.4.sec=THE ISSUER AND THE MANAGERS AND OTHERS WILL RELY UPON THE TRUTH AND ACCURACY OF THE FOREGOING REPRESENTATIONS, ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS, AND AGREEMENTS. NOTWITHSTANDING THE ABOVE, A PERSON WHO IS NOT A QUALIFIED INVESTOR AND WHO HAS NOTIFIED THE MANAGERS OF SUCH FACT IN WRITING MAY, WITH THE WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE MANAGERS, BE PERMITTED TO PURCHASE SECURITIES.

2.5.sec=IN CONNECTION WITH THE ISSUE OF THE BONDS, THE “STABILISING MANAGER” (OR ANY PERSON ACTING ON BEHALF OF THE STABILISING MANAGER) MAY OVER-ALLOT BONDS OR EFFECT TRANSACTIONS WITH A VIEW TO SUPPORTING THE MARKET PRICE OF THE BONDS AT A LEVEL HIGHER THAN THAT WHICH MIGHT OTHERWISE PREVAIL. HOWEVER, THERE IS NO ASSURANCE THAT THE STABILISING MANAGER (OR ANY PERSON ACTING ON BEHALF OF THE STABILISING MANAGER) WILL UNDERTAKE ANY STABILISATION ACTION. ANY STABILISATION ACTION MAY BEGIN ON OR AFTER THE DATE ON WHICH ADEQUATE PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF THE TERMS OF THE OFFER OF THE BONDS IS MADE AND, IF BEGUN, MAY BE ENDED AT ANY TIME, BUT IT MUST END NO LATER THAN THE EARLIER OF 30 DAYS AFTER THE ISSUE DATE OF THE BONDS AND 60 DAYS AFTER THE DATE OF THE ALLOTMENT OF THE BONDS. ANY STABILISATION ACTION OR OVER-ALLOTMENT MUST BE CONDUCTED BY THE STABILISING MANAGER (OR ANY PERSON ACTING ON BEHALF OF THE STABILISING MANAGER) IN ACCORDANCE WITH ALL APPLICABLE LAWS AND RULES.  

2.=[Z/ol-none/s5]

=[Z/ol-none/2]