Note=https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/

Note=https://www.pubpub.org/pub/tos

Ti={Site.Handle} Terms of Service

0.1.1.sec={Site.Handle} is {Site.Owner.Description.cl} (“{Site.Owner.Handle}”). 

0.1.2.sec={Site.Handle} is a tool and service to write, publish, and read published work. {Site.Handle} is built to modernize many of the old traditions of academic publishing which have led to inefficiency, corruption, and the detriment of our pursuit of science.

0.1.=[Z/para/s2]

0.2.sec={Site.Handle} reserves the right to change the terms of the Terms of Service ("{_TOS}") or to modify its features at any time. The {_Site} will post changes to the terms of this User Agreement at http://www.pubpub.org/tos, and by accessing the {_Site} after modifications to this User Agreement have been posted, you agree to be bound by all the modified terms.

0.=[Z/paras/s2]

0.Ti=</i>

1.Ti=Acceptance of Terms

1.0.sec=By accessing content on the {Site.Handle} website (the “{_Site},” which includes all pages within the pubpub.org host directory and subdomains, all pages hosted on {Site.Handle} servers regardless of domain (including but not limited to Journal pages), and all associated services),

1.1.sec=You accept and agree to be bound by all of the terms of this {_TOS}; and

1.2.sec=You affirm that you are either 17 years of age or older or, if you are younger than 17, that your parent or legal guardian accepts these Terms of Service on your behalf.

1.2.sec=You must be (a) 17 years or over or (b) a parent or guardian must accept on your behalf these Terms of Service to access registration-only features on this {_Site}. If we discover or have any reason to suspect that you have not met either of these conditions, then we reserve the right to suspend or terminate your registration to this {_Site} immediately and without notice.

1.=[Z/paras/s2]

2.Ti=Use of the {_Site}

2.1.sec=For the purposes of this {_TOS}, the term “{_Site_Content}” shall include all content, features, and functionality posted to the {_Site} by {Site.Handle} as well as User-Generated Content.

2.2.sec=Except where otherwise noted, {_Site_Content} is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution (CC-BY) 4.0 License and may be used under the terms of that license or any later version of a Creative Commons Attribution License.

2.=[Z/paras/s2]

3.Ti=Use of {_Third-Party_Content}

3.1.sec=To the extent the {_Site} incorporates the copyrighted material of third-parties (“{_Third-Party_Content}”), you represent, warrant, and agree that no {_Third-Party_Content} posted or otherwise shared by you on or through any of the {_Site}, violates or infringes upon the rights of any third-party, including copyright, trademark, privacy, publicity, or other personal or proprietary rights, breaches or conflicts with any obligation, such as a confidentiality obligation, or contains libelous, defamatory, or otherwise unlawful material.

3.2.sec={Site.Owner.Handle} and {Site.Handle} do not warrant that any use of {_Third-Party_Content} will not infringe the rights of the content owners.

3.3.sec=If you believe that any content on the {_Site} infringes your copyrights, please click here for more information, including the email address for {Site.Owner.Handle}’s DMCA agent, to whom copyright infringement notifications should be sent.

3.=[Z/paras/s3]

4.=[Wx/org/pubpub/ToU/Sec/UserContent/0.md]

5.Ti={_Journals}

5.sec={Site.Handle} allows registered users to create "{_Journals}" that aggregate their own and other users' Pubs under a single page. A {_Journal} may reside on the {Site.Handle} domain or on a domain of the {_Journal} administrator's choice. In either case, the content displayed in the {_Journal}, including any Pubs, is displayed exclusively from a {Site.Handle} server. A {_Journal} administrator does not need the approval of a Pub's author in order to include the Pub on his or her page. You may submit your Pub for inclusion in a {_Journal}, but it is up to the {_Journal}'s administrator to decide whether to include it. {Site.Handle} displays in your profile a list of your Pubs and the {_Journals} in which they appear. We may also send you a notification each time a {_Journal} has elected to include your Pub, if you have opted in to receiving email from {Site.Handle}.

6.Ti=Prohibited Uses of the {_Site}

6.sec=You may not access or use the {_Site} in any manner that could damage or overburden any {Site.Owner.Handle} server, or any network connected to any {Site.Owner.Handle} server. You may not use the {_Site} in any manner that would interfere with any other party’s use of the {_Site}.

7.Ti=Use of Names

7.sec=You may not use {Site.Owner.Handle}’s names, trademarks, logos, or insignia, or any version, abbreviation or representation of them, in any advertising, publicity, promotional materials or other public announcement without the prior written consent of {Site.Owner.Handle}’s Technology Licensing Office, which consent {Site.Owner.Handle} may withhold in its sole discretion.

8.Ti=Registration, Privacy, and Termination of Access

8.sec=Certain areas of the {_Site} may require registration or may otherwise ask you to provide information in order to participate. The decision to provide this information is optional; however if you elect not to provide such information, you may not be able to access certain content, features, or functionalities. When you register, you must provide information to {Site.Handle} that is accurate, current and complete (excepting the use of a pseudonym). The {_Site}’s Privacy Policy governs the use of the information you report. {Site.Handle} reserves the right to terminate the registrations and otherwise deny {_Site} access to any person for any reason. The {_Site} will not be liable for any loss or damage arising from your failure to protect your password or account login information.

9.=[Wx/org/pubpub/ToU/Sec/DisclaimWarranty/0.md]

Note=Was "Idemnification"

10.Ti=Indemnification

10.sec=You hereby indemnify, defend, and hold harmless {Site.Owner.Handle} and its affiliates, employees, faculty members, fellows, students, members of their governing boards and agents (collectively, the “{_Indemnified_Parties}”) from and against any and all liability and costs, including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys’ fees, incurred by the {_Indemnified_Parties} in connection with any claim arising out of (1) your posting of {_User-Generated_Content}; (2) any breach by you or any user of your account of this {_TOS} or the foregoing representations, warranties and covenants; or (3) your or any user of your account’s violation of applicable law. You shall cooperate as reasonably required in the defense of any such claim. {Site.Owner.Handle} reserves the right, at its own expense, to assume the exclusive defense and control of any matter subject to indemnification by you.

11.Ti=Contacting this Website

11.sec=If you have any questions about this {_TOS} or Privacy Policy, the practices of the {_Site}, or your dealings with this {_Site}, you can contact the Editor at {Site.Editor.Email}.

12.Ti=Effective Date of Agreement

12.sec=This {_TOS} is in effect as of the publication date marked at the top of this document.

=[Z/ol/12]

_TOS=<span class="definedterm">TOS</span>

_Site=<span class="definedterm">Site</span>

_Site_Content=<span class="definedterm">Site Content</span>

_Third-Party_Content=<span class="definedterm">Third-Party Content</span>

_User-Generated_Content=<span class="definedterm">User-Generated Content</span>

_Use_of_Site=<span class="definedterm">Use of Site</span>

_Journals=<span class="definedterm">Journals</span>

_Journal=<span class="definedterm">Journal</span>

_Indemnified_Parties=<span class="definedterm">Indemnified Parties</span>