Ti=INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS AND INDEMNIFICATION FOR THIRD PARTY IP CLAIMS

//=Common frame for Principles:

=[G/IACCM-ContractPrinciples-CmA/Z/Sec/0.md]  

//II. General Concepts

Concept.0.sec=The following concepts form the basis for the more detailed IACCM Contracting Principles that follow:

Concept.1.sec=Intellectual property owned by a party remains that party’s property unless expressly transferred under the contract.

Concept.2.sec=A party’s use of and rights to another party’s intellectual property must be expressly specified in the contract.

Concept.3.sec=Where services are provided by a supplier, the focus of the contract with the customer should be on the service and not on the intellectual property of the underlying components that are used in the provision of the service.

Concept.4.sec=The supplier should stand behind all of the intellectual property is incorporated into the service, and indemnify the customer against third party claims which relate to the service and any elements thereof, subject to appropriate limitations (see below).

Concept.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s4]

//=III. IACCM Contracting Principles

Principle.1.Ti=Intellectual Property Rights

Principle.1.1.sec=Each party owns the intellectual property it creates before, during and after the contract term, except as may be specifically provided in a contract or an attachment thereto.

Principle.1.2.sec=As between the parties to a contract, the party furnishing information or materials to the other retains its intellectual property rights in such information or materials, subject to any license rights that are granted by the furnishing party (or by a third party licensor).

Principle.1.3.sec=The Customer has the right to use the deliverables and other Supplier intellectual property necessary to use the services only to the extent and for so long as necessary to use the service provided under the contract for the Customer’s specific business needs.

Principle.1.4.sec=The Supplier has the right to use Customer intellectual property only to the extent and for so long as necessary to provide the services under the contract for the Customer's specific needs including any transition.

Principle.1.5.sec=In circumstances where broader (or longer duration) license terms to deliverables are appropriate, those rights should be specifically provided in a contract or an attachment thereto. As to deliverables created in connection with the provision of services provided to multiple customers (i.e. shared services type offering), it may be appropriate for the Customer to be granted a license to that delivered content that is unique to that Customer and is first created by the Supplier in the performance of the services to that Customer; and the Supplier would be granted a license to use the Customer's IP to the extent necessary for the Supplier's provision of services.

Principle.1.6.sec=As to customized unique content (such as a custom software application) that is developed for a Customer's sole use, in accordance with the Customer's specifications without the benefit of the Supplier's right to re-use such content, a provision granting the Customer exclusive use of such content may be appropriate. Third-party software, services, and equipment is provided subject to the third party’s license terms.

Principle.1.7.sec=Generally, where services do not contemplate software development, “work-for-hire” and similar provisions allocating ownership rights are not applicable.

Principle.1.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s7]

Principle.2.Ti=Intellectual Property Infringement

Principle.2.1.0.sec=The Supplier will be responsible the defend and pay/settle any third-party claim against the Customer alleging that the supplier’s service infringes the third party’s intellectual property rights in any country in which the service is provided or where the services/deliverables are intended to be used. The Supplier will not be responsible for infringement claims that arise from the following ("Excluded Claims"):

Principle.2.1.1.sec=combination of the Supplier’s service with items provided by the Customer or others;

Principle.2.1.2.sec=modification to the Supplier’s service by someone other than the Supplier;

Principle.2.1.3.sec=the Supplier’s adherence to the customer’s requirements;

Principle.2.1.4.sec=the Customer’s content; and

Principle.2.1.5.sec=use of the service by the Customer in breach of contract restrictions or in any manner other than as expressly contemplated by the contract.

Principle.2.1.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s5]

Principle.2.2.sec=Customers should have an obligation to indemnify suppliers for Excluded Claims, but only when dealing with outsourcing or significant integration.

Principle.2.3.sec=The obligation to indemnify for third party infringement claims should not be subject to any limitation of liability cap unless the indemnification provisions pose an extraordinary risk to one of the parties.

Principle.2.4.sec=The Customer will promptly notify the supplier of any such claims, and the supplier will not be responsible for any losses attributable to a notification delay.

Principle.2.5.sec=The indemnification of third-party claims is sufficient to protect the Customer. In light of the indemnity for third party claims, the Supplier should not be expected to warrant or represent that its services do not infringe third party intellectual property rights. 

Principle.2.6.0.sec=If the Supplier’s service infringes a third party’s IP (or is subject to a claim of infringement), the Supplier may:
Principle.2.6.1.sec=obtain from the third party the right for the Customer to continue its use of the service;

Principle.2.6.2.sec=modify the service so it is not infringing without materially reducing the functionality and performance of the service; or

Principle.2.6.3.sec=substitute another service having substantially the same functionality and performance criteria.

Principle.2.6.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s3]

Principle.2.7.sec=If the Supplier is unable to implement any of these measures through commercially reasonable efforts, the Supplier may cease providing the service that is subject to the third party claim and refund any prepaid charges.

Principle.2.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s7]

Principle.=[G/Z/ol-AA/2]

Def.sec={Def.Intellectual_Property.sec}

Def.Intellectual_Property.sec={Clause.4.sec}

Clause.=[G/IACCM-ContractPrinciples-CmA/Sec/IntellectualPropertyOwnership/0.md]