Look at a real calendar! Account for holidays and breaks
Include midterm and final projects preparation weeks and due date weeks
Short explanation of that what will be learned that week 
Guiding questions and topics that will frame the discussion for that week
Required readings and other learning materials (films, music, podcasts, projects, etc) 
Include page numbers (or equivalent) and a short annotation of its relevance 
[Each week must have 150-200 pages of reading, or 10-hour equivalent] 
Please note the number of total hours of effort per week. Note: All Brown full-credit courses must demonstrate a minimum of 180 hours of effort for the semester.

Use the following example: 

Week 1: Sound, Auditory Transduction and Psychoacoustics [9/6 – 9/10]
We will begin our semester by establishing a common understanding of the fundamental concepts underpinning the study of music cognition. We will address the following questions: 
What are the physical properties of sound? What constitutes musical sound? 
How do the properties of waves dictate the ways sound is created and perceived? 
How are sounds encoded and represented in the human brain? 

Discussion, 9/7 + Presentation, 9/9 
Leaders: Candice Smith  
Total: 115 pages + 1-hour listening 
Assignments: Reading Response 


Readings: 
John Dewey -- Why Things Sound the Way They Do, Chapter 1 (pages 1-50) 
An introduction to the physics of sound, including simple harmonic motion, modes of vibration and the overtone series, damping, Fourier analysis, spectrograms, and sound propagation. 
Gabriel Lorca -- The Auditory & Vestibular Systems, Chapter 11 (pages 344-377)
An overview of how sound is encoded and represented in the human brain.
Loci Milano -- The nature of music from a biological perspective (pages 1-32, 100)
A conceptual framework for studying music as a neurobiological phenomenon, and discusses the implications of doing so. 
Radio Lab – Musical Illusions (60 minutes)
A scientific breakdown of how music is interpreted by the brain. 
*** 


Ti=Week {Week.#} Plan

0.sec={SubjectTitle} {Week.StartDate.YMD}

1.sec={LessonPlan}

2.sec={DailySchedule}

3.sec=Leader(s): {Leaders}

4.sec=Effort Total: {PageEffort} + {OtherEffort}

5.sec=Assignments: {Assignments}

6.sec=Readings:<br>{Readings}

7.sec=Bibliography:  {Bibliography}

=[G/Z/ol/s7]

[repeat above for a total of 14 weeks]

Bibliography
Please include all of your sources in alphabetical order, APA or MLA format:  
