Ti=Definitions

1.sec=Affiliate:

2.sec=Business Day:

3.sec=Charges: the charges set out in Schedule 3 of the Framework Agreement or as otherwise specified in Part 2.

4.sec=control:

//=Defined, but not used!

5.sec=Customer Party Affiliate: an Affiliate of the Customer Party.

6.sec=Customer Party Background IPRs: all Intellectual Property Rights in the Customer Party Materials.

7.sec=Customer Party Manager: {P1.Manager.Name.Full} or such person as notified by the Customer Party to the Supplier from time to time.

8.sec=Customer Party Materials: all materials, equipment and tools, drawings, specifications and data supplied by the Customer Party to the Supplier.

9.sec=Deliverables: all documents, products and materials developed by the Supplier or its agents, contractors and employees as part of or in relation to the Services in any form, including without limitation computer programs, data, reports and specifications (including drafts).

10.sec=Foreground IPRs: all Intellectual Property Rights in the Deliverables, other than Supplier Background IPRs.

11.sec=Framework Agreement Commencement Date:

12.sec=Intellectual Property Rights: patents, {utility models,} rights to inventions, copyright and {neighbouring and} related rights, {moral rights,} trade marks {and service marks}, business names and domain names, rights in {get-up and trade dress}, goodwill and the right to sue for {passing off or unfair competition}, rights in designs, {rights in computer software,} database rights, rights to use, and protect the confidentiality of, confidential information (including {know-how and trade secrets}) and all other intellectual property rights, in each case whether registered or unregistered and including all applications and rights to apply for and be granted, renewals or extensions of, and rights to claim priority from, such rights and all similar or equivalent rights or forms of protection which subsist or will subsist now or in the future in any part of the world.

13.sec=Mandatory Policies: the Customer Party's business policies {and codes} {Def.13.Attached.Alt1.sec}.

13.Attached.Alt1.sec=attached

13.Attached.Alt2.sec=listed in Part 3

13.Attached.Alt3.sec=listed in Part 3, as amended by notification to the Supplier from time to time].

13.Attached.=[G/Z/Alt/3]

14.sec=Services: the services as set out in Part 1, including without limitation any Deliverables, to be provided by the Supplier pursuant to this Call-off Contract. 

15.sec=Supplier Background IPRs: all Intellectual Property Rights that are owned by or licensed to the Supplier and which are or have been developed independently of this Call-off Contract in each case either subsisting in the Deliverables or otherwise necessary or desirable to enable a Customer Party to receive and use the Services. 

16.sec=Supplier Manager: {P2.Manager.Name.Full} or such person as notified by the Supplier to the Customer Party from time to time.

17.sec=TUPE: the Transfer of Undertakings (Protection of Employment) Regulations 2006 (SI 2006/46) (as amended).

=[G/Z/ol-none/s17]
