Ti=Article 12 - Transparent information, communication and modalities for the exercise of the rights of the {_data_subject}

1.sec=The {_controller} shall take appropriate measures to provide any information referred to in Articles 13 and 14 and any communication under Articles 15 to 22 and 34 relating to {_processing} to the {_data_subject} in a concise, transparent, intelligible and easily accessible form, using clear and plain language, in particular for any information addressed specifically to a {_child}. The information shall be provided in writing, or by other means, including, where appropriate, by electronic means. When requested by the {_data_subject}, the information may be provided orally, provided that the identity of the {_data_subject} is proven by other means.

2.sec=The {_controller} shall facilitate the exercise of {_data_subject} rights under Articles 15 to 22. In the cases referred to in Article 11(2), the {_controller} shall not refuse to act on the request of the {_data_subject} for exercising his or her rights under Articles 15 to 22, unless the {_controller} demonstrates that it is not in a position to identify the {_data_subject}.

3.sec=The {_controller} shall provide information on action taken on a request under Articles 15 to 22 to the {_data_subject} without undue delay and in any event within one month of receipt of the request. That period may be extended by two further months where necessary, taking into account the complexity and number of the requests. The {_controller} shall inform the {_data_subject} of any such extension within one month of receipt of the request, together with the reasons for the delay. Where the {_data_subject} makes the request by electronic form means, the information shall be provided by electronic means where possible, unless otherwise requested by the {_data_subject}.

4.sec=If the {_controller} does not take action on the request of the {_data_subject}, the {_controller} shall inform the {_data_subject} without delay and at the latest within one month of receipt of the request of the reasons for not taking action and on the possibility of lodging a complaint with a {_supervisory_authority} and seeking a judicial remedy.

5.0.sec=Information provided under Articles 13 and 14 and any communication and any actions taken under Articles 15 to 22 and 34 shall be provided free of charge. Where requests from a {_data_subject} are manifestly unfounded or excessive, in particular because of their repetitive character, the {_controller} may either:

5.1.sec=charge a reasonable fee taking into account the administrative costs of providing the information or communication or taking the action requested; or

5.2.sec=refuse to act on the request.

5.00.sec=The {_controller} shall bear the burden of demonstrating the manifestly unfounded or excessive character of the request.

5.=[G/Z/ol-a/s2]

6.sec=Without prejudice to Article 11, where the {_controller} has reasonable doubts concerning the identity of the {_natural_person} making the request referred to in Articles 15 to 21, the {_controller} may request the provision of additional information necessary to confirm the identity of the {_data_subject}.

7.sec=The information to be provided to {_data_subjects} pursuant to Articles 13 and 14 may be provided in combination with standardised icons in order to give in an easily visible, intelligible and clearly legible manner a meaningful overview of the intended {_processing}. Where the icons are presented electronically they shall be machine-readable.

8.sec=The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 92 for the purpose of determining the information to be presented by the icons and the procedures for providing standardised icons.

=[G/Z/ol/s8]
