Ti=Article 60 - Cooperation between the lead {_supervisory_authority} and other {_supervisory_authorities} concerned

1.sec=The lead {_supervisory_authority} shall cooperate with the other {_supervisory_authorities} concerned in accordance with this Article in an endeavour to reach consensus. The lead {_supervisory_authority} and the {_supervisory_authorities} concerned shall exchange all relevant information with each other.

2.sec=The lead {_supervisory_authority} may request at any time other {_supervisory_authorities} concerned to provide mutual assistance pursuant to Article 61 and may conduct joint operations pursuant to Article 62, in particular for carrying out investigations or for monitoring the implementation of a measure concerning a {_controller} or {_processor} established in another Member State.

3.sec=The lead {_supervisory_authority} shall, without delay, communicate the relevant information on the matter to the other {_supervisory_authorities} concerned. It shall without delay submit a draft decision to the other {_supervisory_authorities} concerned for their opinion and take due account of their views.

4.sec=Where any of the other {_supervisory_authorities} concerned within a period of four weeks after having been consulted in accordance with paragraph 3 of this Article, expresses a {_relevant_and_reasoned_objection} to the draft decision, the lead {_supervisory_authority} shall, if it does not follow the {_relevant_and_reasoned_objection} or is of the opinion it is not relevant and reasoned, submit the matter to the consistency mechanism referred to in Article 63.

5.sec=Where the lead {_supervisory_authority} intends to follow the {_relevant_and_reasoned_objection} made, it shall submit to the other {_supervisory_authorities} concerned a revised draft decision for their opinion. That revised draft decision shall be subject to the procedure referred to in paragraph 4 within a period of two weeks.

6.sec=Where none of the other {_supervisory_authorities} concerned has objected to the draft decision submitted by the lead {_supervisory_authority} within the period referred to in paragraphs 4 and 5, the lead {_supervisory_authority} and the {_supervisory_authorities} concerned shall be deemed to be in agreement with that draft decision and shall be bound by it.

7.sec=The lead {_supervisory_authority} shall adopt and notify the decision to the {_main_establishment} or single establishment of the {_controller} or {_processor}, as the case may be and inform the other {_supervisory_authorities} concerned and the {_Board} of the decision in question, including a summary of the relevant facts and grounds. The {_supervisory_authority} with which a complaint has been lodged shall inform the complainant on the decision.

8.sec=By derogation from paragraph 7, where a complaint is dismissed or rejected, the {_supervisory_authority} with which the complaint was lodged shall adopt the decision and notify it to the complainant and shall inform the {_controller} thereof.

9.sec=Where the lead {_supervisory_authority} and the {_supervisory_authorities} concerned agree to dismiss or reject parts of a complaint and to act on other parts of that complaint, a separate decision shall be adopted for each of those parts of the matter. The lead {_supervisory_authority} shall adopt the decision for the part concerning actions in relation to the {_controller}, shall notify it to the {_main_establishment} or single establishment of the {_controller} or {_processor} on the territory of its Member State and shall inform the complainant thereof, while the {_supervisory_authority} of the complainant shall adopt the decision for the part concerning dismissal or rejection of that complaint, and shall notify it to that complainant and shall inform the {_controller} or {_processor} thereof.

10.sec=After being notified of the decision of the lead {_supervisory_authority} pursuant to paragraphs7 and 9, the {_controller} or {_processor} shall take the necessary measures to ensure compliance with the decision as regards {_processing} activities in the context of all its establishments in the Union. The {_controller} or {_processor} shall notify the measures taken for complying with the decision to the lead {_supervisory_authority}, which shall inform the other {_supervisory_authorities} concerned.

11.sec=Where, in exceptional circumstances, a {_supervisory_authority_concerned} has reasons to consider that there is an urgent need to act in order to protect the interests of {_data_subjects}, the urgency procedure referred to in Article 66 shall apply.

12.sec=The lead {_supervisory_authority} and the other {_supervisory_authorities} concerned shall supply the information required under this Article to each other by electronic means, using a standardised format.

=[G/Z/ol/s12]

