Ti=Article 92 - Exercise of the delegation

1.sec=The power to adopt delegated acts is conferred on the Commission subject to the conditions laid down in this Article.

2.sec=The delegation of power referred to in Article 12(8) and Article 43(8) shall be conferred on the Commission for an indeterminate period of time from … [the date of entry into force of this Regulation].

3.sec=The delegation of power referred to in Article 12(8) and Article 43(8) may be revoked at any time by the European Parliament or by the Council. A decision of revocation shall put an end to the delegation of power specified in that decision. It shall take effect the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union or at a later date specified therein. It shall not affect the validity of any delegated acts already in force.

4.sec=As soon as it adopts a delegated act, the Commission shall notify it simultaneously to the European Parliament and to the Council.

5.sec=A delegated act adopted pursuant to Article 12(8) and Article 43(8) shall enter into force only if no objection has been expressed by either the European Parliament or the Council within a period of three months of notification of that act to the European Parliament and the Council or if, before the expiry of that period, the European Parliament and the Council have both informed the Commission that they will not object. That period shall be extended by three months at the initiative of the European Parliament or of the Council.

=[G/Z/ol/s5]
