Note=Was misnumbered in the original

Ti=Non-Personal Services

1.sec=This award is not being used to procure personal services prohibited by FAR 37.104, Personal services contract.

2.0.sec=To ensure no personal services are performed, the Contractor shall adhere to the following guidelines in the performance of any task:

2.1.sec=Provide for direct supervision of all contract employees assigned to the task. To this end, the Contractor shall assign a task leader to the award. The task leader or alternate should be the only one who accepts tasking from the assigned Government point of contact or alternative.

2.2.sec=Do not assign contractor personnel to work under direct government supervision.

2.3.sec=Refrain from discussing the issues such as skill levels and hours, salaries, cost and funding data, or administrative and personnel matters affecting contractor employees.

2.4.sec=Ensure close communication/coordination only with the appropriate Government Points of Contact, reporting any time-sensitive issues or problems as they occur (not waiting for a monthly meeting).

2.5.sec=Do not permit government officials to interview potential contractor employees, discuss individual performance, approve leave or work scheduling of contractor employees, terminate contractor employees, assist contractor employees in doing their jobs or obtain assistance from the contractor in doing Government job.

2.6.sec=When travel is required for the performance on a task, the Contractor personnel are only to travel as directed by their contract management.

2.=[Z/ol-none/s6]

=[Z/ol-none/s2]
