//=This presents a completed Consulting Agreement.  The SOWs and other documents are in attachment, and in future steps the parties would complete them, linked to here.  This is based on the NDA (follow the links from the Agt-Consulting-CmA/Form/).  It uses the same Deal/Def/Relate/Misc format of the NDA and many of the NDA sections.  But it reorganizes some of them and adds other sections.  Notably, it moves the confidentiality provisions from the "Deal" part to the "Relate" part.  This makes flesh the notion that a Consulting Agreement is an NDA with additions.  It also demonstrates that the cross-reference links to sections keep working even as the sections are moved, because we reference them by name, not position.

P1.=[G/U/id/acme_incorporated.md]

P2.=[G/U/id/andrea_ang.md]

Law.=[G/U/at/US/CA/San_Mateo/Geo]

=[G/Agt-Consulting-CmA/Form/0.md]  

_P1=<i>Acme</i>

_P2=<i>Quake</i>

Doc.GUID=012347

Why.Secs={_P1} engages {_P2} to provide data security consulting services.

EffectiveDate.YMD=2016-07-09

Relate.Life.Term.End.YMD=2017-12-31

Relate.Life.Renew.TimeSpan=one year

Relate.Life.NonRenew.Notice.TimeSpan=60 days

Relate.Life.Stop.ByClientWithoutCause.TimeSpan=30 days

Relate.Life.Stop.ByConsultantWithoutCause.TimeSpan=90 days

Relate.Life.Cure.TimeSpan=15 days

Relate.Conf.Intro.sec={Relate.Conf.Intro.Mutual.sec}

Relate.Conf.Life.End.YMD=2021-12-31

Relate.Conf.Engage.Access.sec={Relate.Conf.Engage.Access.Entity;Employees;NeedToKnow;Sign.sec}

Relate.Conf.Life.sec={Relate.Conf.Life.TimeLimit-FixedDate.sec}

Relate.Dispute.Cost.sec={Relate.Dispute.Cost.LoserBearsAll.sec}

Relate.Dispute.Tribunal.Forum.cl={Relate.Dispute.Tribunal.Forum.USCourt.cl}

Relate.Assign.sec={Relate.Assign.Mutual.sec}

Misc.Entire.sec={Misc.Entire.Simple.sec}