Published under Creative Commons License: CC BY 4.0 - From ContractForTheWeb.org

Principle.Head=Principle 6

Ti=Develop technologies that support the best in humanity and challenge the worst

0.sec=So the Web really is a public good that puts people first

1.Ti=By being accountable for their work, through regular reports, including how they are

1.1.sec=Respecting and supporting human rights, as outlined by the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.

1.2.sec=Establishing policies designed to respect and promote the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals, particularly those pertaining to education, gender equality, systematically excluded groups, climate, and socio-environmental justice.

1.3.sec=Assessing and addressing risks created by their technologies, including risks associated with online content (such as misinformation and disinformation), behavior, and personal well-being.

1.=[G/Z/ol-a/s3]

2.Ti=By engaging with all communities in an inclusive way:

2.1.sec=Establishing effective channels for consultation both during development of technologies and after their release, as a means to ensure the rights and interests of the full breadth of communities, in terms of gender, race, age, ethnicity, and other intersectionalities, are taken into account.

2.2.sec=Ensuring a diverse workforce: releasing periodic reports including metrics that show progress towards a more representative workforce.

2.3.sec=Ensuring their workforce is prepared in a holistic manner through periodic trainings that help employees understand their responsibilities toward the communities they affect, help them identify and tackle common blind spots, and reflect on the impact of their work.

2.=[G/Z/ol-a/s3]

3.Ti=By investing in and supporting the digital commons:

3.1.sec=Upholding and further developing open Web standards.

3.2.sec=Promoting interoperability, open-source technologies, open access, open knowledge, and open data practices and values.

3.3.sec=Ensuring that the terms of service, interfaces and channels of redress are accessible and available in local languages and properly localized, use formats that allow, encourage, and empower a diverse set of users to actively participate in and contribute to the commons, including open and free culture, science, and knowledge.

3.=[G/Z/ol-a/s3]

Context.Link=<a href="https://contractfortheweb.org/principles/principles/principle-6-more-info/#section-1">Context</a>

HumanRightsFrameworks.Link=<a href="https://contractfortheweb.org/principles/principles/principle-6-more-info/#section-2">Human Rights Frameworks</a>

OtherExistingFrameworks.Link=<a href="https://contractfortheweb.org/principles/principles/principle-6-more-info/#section-3">Other Existing Frameworks</a>

Glossary.Link=<a href="https://contractfortheweb.org/principles/principles/principle-6-more-info/#section-4">Glossary</a>

=[G/ContractForTheWeb/Principle/Z/0.md]

=[G/Z/ol/2]