Guide to Annex B

Ti=Creating a Data Management Plan

1.Ti=Technical description of data

1.0.sec=Describe the volume, quality and format of the data to be shared. Explain reasoning for selection of data characteristics and format.

1.1.sec={Data-TechnicalDescription.sec}

1.00.1.0.sec=For each type of data shared, the Parties should describe and explain:

1.00.1.1.sec=The volume of the data to be shared. “Volume” refers to the amount of data that will be shared, processed, and retained. The volume of data should be reported as an identifiable unit of data storage (e.g. kilobytes (KB), megabytes (MB), gigabytes (GB), as appropriate). 

1.00.1.2.sec=The quality of the data to be shared. “Quality” refers to characteristics such as accuracy, validity, reliability, timeliness, relevance, and completeness. In addition to identifying the quality characteristics, the Parties will need to agree on how such characteristics will be measured.

1.00.1.3.sec=The format in which data will be shared, processed, and retained. “Format” refers to how data are encoded for sharing, processing, and storage. For example, public health surveillance data taking the form of quantitative tabular data might be in an SPSS file format, with metadata within a DDI XML file format. The data should be in a format suitable for public health data and familiar to all Parties. 

1.00.1.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s3]

1.00.2.sec=When the Parties are sharing different types of data, they should label each type of data with a number that can be used throughout Annex B.
	
1.00.=[G/Z/paras/s2]

1.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s1]

2.Ti=Description of metadata

2.0.sec=Describe metadata that should accompany the data for accurate reuse. Explain reasoning for selection of metadata format.

2.1.sec={Data-Metadata.sec}

2.00.1.sec=“Metadata” are ‘data about data’ because metadata provide information about the content of a data resource, how it was created, restrictions on its use, and its quality. Metadata facilitate the effective use of data resources, particularly for persons who were not involved in collecting and processing the original data.

2.00.2.sec=Annex B should describe all metadata and include any relevant documentation about the metadata. The metadata format used should work most effectively with the type of data being shared and should be a widely recognized format for public health metadata.

2.00.=[G/Z/paras/s2]

2.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s1]

3.Ti=Standards for data sharing processes

3.0.sec=Describe standards and methodologies to be utilized for data collection and management. Explain reasoning for selection of standards.

3.1.sec={Data-ProcessingStandards.sec}

3.00.sec=“Standards” are agreed specifications that ensure data can be shared between different data management systems in a consistent manner. Annex B should identify and explain what standards the Parties will use to share and manage data and, where necessary, how the Parties will collaborate to apply those standards where capacity might be limited. 

3.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s1]

4.Ti=Quality assurance

4.0.sec=Describe the processes to ensure that data are fit for their intended use. Determine how erroneous or low-quality data will be identified and how they will be managed.

4.1.sec={Data-QualityAssurance.sec}

4.00.sec=“Quality assurance” consists of transparent processes operating at key stages of the data management cycle that limit the appearance of erroneous or low-quality data, provide confidence in the accuracy and utility of shared data, and permit appropriate handling of sensitive data, such as PII. Annex B should describe how the Parties will achieve quality assurance, report data errors, and find solutions to correct data errors and their causes.

4.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s1]

5.Ti=Storage, security and disposal

5.0.sec=Describe where and how data will be stored, including any security mechanisms to prevent unauthorized access, and the process for communicating if either Party detects unauthorized access to shared data. Specify the process for safely disposing of data when they are no longer required.

5.1.sec={Data-Storage.sec}

5.00.1.sec=The Parties should identify how they will store data collected, shared, and processed under their agreement. Assistance for storage capabilities can form part of a benefit sharing plan (see Annex D). Storage needs should be assessed for both the near- and longer-term, as further reuse and value may be derived from data beyond the immediate lifetime of the data sharing agreement. To reduce any risk of data corruption, computer systems should be well maintained, with routine data backup to mitigate against hardware failure. Stored data should be protected by security measures against unauthorized access, and such measures should be more extensive for more confidential or sensitive information.  Annex B should describe how the Parties will achieve data security, report unauthorized access to data, and respond to breaches of data security.

5.00.2.sec=Annex B should specify how the Parties will dispose of stored data when required by the agreement, by applicable law, or by circumstances that arise during data sharing activities.

5.00.=[G/Z/paras/s2]

5.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s1]

6.Ti=Data sharing and access

6.0.sec=Describe how data will be shared, including a schedule of when data will be made available with frequency of transfer. Describe where data will be accessed and by whom.

6.1.sec={Data-SharingAndAccess.sec}

6.00.sec=Annex B should explain how the Parties will share data, when and how often they will share them, where shared data can be accessed, and who can access shared data. Various objectives, including quality assurance and data security (see above), will influence the mechanisms and timing for data sharing and data access. Different kinds of shared data will require different sharing and access strategies. For example, for routine public health surveillance information, a regular schedule of data delivery facilitates efficient allocation of human resources and development of reliable data management systems.

6.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s1]

7.Ti=Data privacy issues

7.0.sec=Outline any measures for, or restrictions on, data sharing that may be required to safeguard personal privacy. Ensure that any restrictions on data sharing for privacy reasons are justified.

7.1.sec={Data-Privacy.sec}

7.00.sec=The Parties should identify how their data sharing activities might affect the privacy of individuals and describe in Annex B how they plan to protect privacy. Failure to protect privacy could have legal consequences, violate ethical principles, and generate mistrust about public health activities. The Parties should be aware that national privacy laws often permit uses of personal data for specific public health purposes. In addition to legislation, local customs and sensibilities should be taken into account, including context-specific implications of disclosing ethnicity, gender, sexual preference or other characteristics that can lead to discrimination. The Parties might be able to remove PII from some shared data, known as anonymization. In other contexts, PII might be critical to understanding shared data, and the Parties will need other strategies to protect privacy in these situations. 

7.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s1]

8.Ti=Resource implications

8.0.sec=Identify the human, technical and material requirements necessary for successful data management. Where gaps in resources are identified, specify how they will be addressed.

8.1.sec={Data-ResourceCommitment.sec}

8.00.sec=Effective data management requires technical and human resources to achieve successful data sharing and processing, quality assurance, data security, and privacy protection. The Parties should identify what they need to implement the data management plan in Annex B. These needs can include obtaining or developing specialist skills in information technologies, training in software applications, and access to financial resources. Any gaps in resource requirements must be addressed explicitly as part of the sharing process, with responsibility allocated for the necessary costs incurred. Helping a Party meet these needs can form part of the benefit sharing plan (see Annex D).

8.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s1]

9.Ti=Roles and responsibilities

9.0.sec=Specify individuals who will undertake roles and responsibilities for each step in the data management cycle (processing, analysis, storage, access, reuse, and disposal).

9.1.sec={Data-RolesResponsibilities.sec}

9.00.sec=The Parties should identify specific individuals who will have responsibility for the various aspects of the data management plan and provide their contact information as part of Annex B. Where necessary or appropriate, an individual can exercise responsibility for an area of the data management plan (e.g., quality assurance) on behalf of both Parties, including committing the necessary resources.

9.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s1]

=[G/Z/ol/9]
