Test 1:

2=2

3=3

5=5

7=7

2 x 2={2} x {2}

3 x 2={3} x {2}

4={2 x 2}

6={3 x 2}

8={2 x 2} x {2}

16={2 x 2} x {2 x 2}

96={16} x {6}

Model.Root={96} bottles of {Favored Beverage} on the {House Element}.

Favored Beverage=b{i}r

House Element={wl}

i=ee

wl=wall

See also an email which I will send.  It is from my son, Geoffrey, an architecture student at BrownU.  He and some other students did a version and helped with a conference at connection.mit.edu.


Reflecting on our conversation - it seems useful to highlight an irony.  We are building a document assembly system with the goal of disassembling documents so that tranaction records become just lists of transaction points.  These lists are common in many domains - credit card receipts, stock exchange records, etc. - anywhere that markets have become well-organized.  But there is a large messy domain of "legal documents" (of all types), where that is not true. There we restate ideas that seem like general principles, in unique words, and bury the transaction points in them.  Making for much needless work, error, confusion and opacity.

The goal is that all transactions, and all steps in transaction life-cycles, should become lists of tranaction specifics, with one or more links (edges) to existing lists (objects). 

And that we should do this based on efficiency, ease and security for the parties rather than top-down edict from a regulator or dominant marketmaker. 

The thesis (to be proved or disproved) is that Prose Objects can do this.  Three streams of thought seem to support this.  One is the open source community.  Individual contribution, often for one's own purposes, and community iteration.  Another is standards projects such as W3C and ISO.  A third is legal improvement projects, from model documents (NVCA, GA4GH) to the work of the ALI, ELI and UNIDROIT.

There are also governmental interests pushing in the same direction, e.g. the OpenTrustFabric.org.

A hypothesis is that law converges on a need for a Centre https://github.com/CommonAccord/OpenTrustFabric/blob/master/File/Centre.pdf

Another hypothesis is that the ability to map the whole transaction lifecycle will enable capture of "results" - outcomes of transactions - we may even get to a "Pragmatic" approach to law.  This would be very consequential. Perhaps there is some "reality" behind the complexities of law.


Charles Pierce, in his brilliant, strange 19th Century writing style:

"On the other hand, all the followers of science are animated by a cheerful hope that the processes of investigation, if only pushed far enough, will give one certain solution to each question to which they apply it. One man may investigate the velocity of light by studying the transits of Venus and the aberration of the stars; another by the oppositions of Mars and the eclipses of Jupiter’s satellites; a third by the method of Fizeau; a fourth by that of Foucault; a fifth by the motions of the curves of Lissajoux; a sixth, a seventh, an eighth, and a ninth, may follow the different methods of comparing the measures of statical and dynamical electricity. They may at first obtain different results, but, as each perfects his method and his processes, the results are found to move steadily together toward a destined centre. So with all scientific research. Different minds may set out with the most antagonistic views, but the progress of investigation carries them by a force outside of themselves to one and the same conclusion. This activity of thought by which we are carried, not where we wish, but to a fore-ordained goal, is like the operation of destiny. No modification of the point of view taken, no selection of other facts for study, no natural bent of mind even, can enable a man to escape the predestinate opinion. This great hope is embodied in the conception of truth and reality. The opinion which is fated to be ultimately agreed to by all who investigate, is what we mean by the truth, and the object represented in this opinion is the real. That is the way I would explain reality."

Peirce, Charles S.. Philosophical Writings of Peirce (p. 38). Dover Publications. Kindle Edition. 



