1. NDA codification efforts - see the thread https://twitter.com/mengwong/status/1361838994124775424  (Also links to a cartoon about the irony of yet another "definitive" standard.)

2. Much discussed today.

3. New String.py is good at prioritizing a set of dictionaries, see comments in the commit message https://github.com/CommonAccord/NW-NDA/commit/d218500d096d61e9ac3c80c6fba978736b75f564

4. Usability issues:

4.0. How to fill in the blanks in a document, how to make choices as among alternatives.

4.1. The fill-in is the easiest case.  One way is to present the rendered document with the missing fields as textboxes. Click and type your answer, or select from among possible answers.  Click and type was available in the XWiki version, and we once had a primitive version in the perl/PHP version, from about 2016. It would allow you to click, decide if you wanted to create a new file, save your changes to that file.  But it was buggy, and VSCode makes it much less important, so I removed it.  https://github.com/CommonAccord/cmacc-app/blob/master/xEdit_parser.pl  Still, nice for a demo.

4.2. Another case is select among alternative k/vs.  Currently we do that with the /G/Z/Alt/ library.  http://www.commonaccord.org/i.php?v=d&f=G/Agt-NDA-CmA/Sec/Misc/Entire/0.md.  The solution has the enormous advantage of using the basic Prose Object model, with no additional tech, so a domain expert (aka lawyer or law student) can set it up with only a tiny bit of experience or help.  If you look there, you'll see that the solution is slightly cumbersome - you first define choices 1,2,3, then assign each to an option.  That permits the resulting set of choices in the user's document to have meaningful names.  http://www.commonaccord.org/i.php?v=s&f=G/Agt-NDA-CmA/Demo/Acme-Ang/0.md#Misc.Entire.sec.  An improvement would be a way to directly specify the meaningful names rather than the numbers, and pass that to /G/Z/Alt/. And a solution to that (we have very specific ideas how to do that) would take one a very long ways towards "algorithmic" expression - Legalese, Lexon, Genesereth, etc.  But it should be done in a way that is consistent with the model.

4.3. Another case is where you want to select among some Prose Objects (aka "files").  As you create a new NDA, you might want to select from among possible parties, jurisdictions, use cases (P1-to-P2, Mutual, etc.).  This requires at least a navigation box, and persisting the selected file (and prefix) to the home file.

5.  In all of these there is the issue of how the information is "persisted."  That is, the user's work has to become a new Prose Object (aka file) or modifications to an existing one.  And any user-work should be understood as just one step in a chain of steps that may continue.  That is, the work may be a draft, a counterproposal, a first signature, etc.  All that works fine as long as the info is saved as a Prose Object.  (The rendered document may also be persisted as a "blob" of HTML, PDF, Word, whatever. It may then be signed, scanned, filed, etc.  If there is an ID number in the rendered document then it is easy to match the blob with the Prose Object.  A bit more thinking needs to be done around this to assure that the Doc ID is unique.  Perhaps it needs a short commit hash?)



