Model.Root={NDA}

=[BB/NDA/BB_Blocks.md]

Company={P1.Nom}

Co.Description={P1.Description}

Co.Rep.Name={P1.Dirigeant.Nom}

Co.Rep.Title={P1.Dirigeant.Titre}  

Co.FullAddress={P1.Adresse.1,3}  

Partner={P2.Nom}

Partner.Description={P2.Description}

Partner.Rep.Name={P2.Rep1.Nom}

Partner.Rep.Title={P2.Rep1.Titre}

NDA=<P>{ConfidentialInformation}</P><P>{Parties}</P><P>{Confidentiality}</P><P>{Protection}</P><P>{Handling}</P><P>{Exceptions}</P><P>{Assignment}</P><P>{Obligations}</P><P>{Remedies}</P><P>{ThirdParties}</P><P>{Duration}</P><P>{GoverningLawArbitration}</P>

MutualNDA=<P ALIGN=CENTER><U><B>Mutual Confidentiality and Non-Disclosure Agreement</B></U></P><br><P>This Confidentiality and Non-Disclosure Agreement is entered hereto between <P><B>{Company}</B>, {Co.Description}, represented by its {Co.Rep.Title}, <B>{Co.Rep.Name}</B></P><BR>And: <P><B>{Partner}</B>, {Partner.Description}</P> (With all subsidiaries, parents, affiliates, officers, directors, and employees and/or related companies where it has direct or indirect participation),  </P><P>Represented by {Partner.Rep.Name}</P><br><P>In order to prepare a possible collaboration, integrate other party technology or give access to other party technology, certain confidential information, technical details and know-how belonging to one party may be disclosed to the other party.</P><P><B>Both parties are alternately, the "Disclosing Party" and the "Receiving Party"</B></P><br><P>In consideration of the disclosure of Confidential Information and undertakings of confidentiality in respect such Confidential Information, the Parties mutually agree as follows:</P><br><P><B>1. </B>{ConfidentialInformation}</P><P><B>2. </B>{Parties}</P><P><B>3. </B> {Confidentiality}</P><P><B>4. </B>{Protection}</P><P><B>5. </B>{Handling}</P><P><B>6. </B>{Exceptions}</P><P><B>7. </B>{Assignment}</P><P><B>8. </B>{Obligations}</P><P><B>9. </B>{Remedies}</P><P><B>10. </B>{ThirdParties}</P><P><B>11. </B>{Duration}</P><P><B>12. </B>{GoverningLawArbitration}</P><P><B>Signed in </B></P><P><B>Date: </B></P><P>Initials on each page for approval</P>{Signature.Block}

NonMutualNDA=<P ALIGN=CENTER><U><B>Mutual Confidentiality and Non-Disclosure Agreement</B></U></P><br><P>This Confidentiality and Non-Disclosure Agreement is entered hereto between <P><B>{Company}</B>, {Co.Description} (Hereinafter referred to as "<B>the Disclosing Party</B>"), represented by its {Co.Rep.Title}, <B>{Co.Rep.Name}</B></P><BR>And: <P><B>{Partner}</B>, {Partner.Description}</P> (With all subsidiaries, parents, affiliates, officers, directors, and employees and/or related companies where it has direct or indirect participation, hereinafter referred to as "<B>the Receiving Party</B>")</P><P>Represented by {Partner.Rep.Name}</P><br><P>In order to prepare a possible collaboration, integrate other party technology or give access to other party technology, certain confidential information, technical details and know-how belonging to one party may be disclosed to the other party.</P><br><P>In consideration of the disclosure of Confidential Information and undertakings of confidentiality in respect such Confidential Information, the Parties mutually agree as follows:</P><br><P><B>1. </B>{ConfidentialInformation}</P><P><B>2. </B>{Parties}</P><P><B>3. </B> {Confidentiality}</P><P><B>4. </B>{Protection}</P><P><B>5. </B>{Handling}</P><P><B>6. </B>{Exceptions}</P><P><B>7. </B>{Assignment}</P><P><B>8. </B>{Obligations}</P><P><B>9. </B>{Remedies}</P><P><B>10. </B>{ThirdParties}</P><P><B>11. </B>{Duration}</P><P><B>12. </B>{GoverningLawArbitration}</P><P><B>Signed in </B></P><P><B>Date: </B></P><P>Initials on each page for approval</P>{Signature.Block}  

ConfidentialInformation=<U><B>Confidential Information.</B></U> The term "Confidential Information" shall mean any proprietary, planning, financial, marketing, technical, source code, login, passwords, process, any information or data howsoever recorded, preserved or disclosed, relating to the Project and/or to either Party's business or affairs, including without limitation, product samples, data, know-how, trade secrets, formulae, inventions, techniques, processes, operations, customer lists and details, financial information, sales and marketing plans, forecasts, analyses, compilations, reports, interpretations, surveys, patents, patent applications, copyrights, designs, design right applications, configurations, experiments, memoranda, valuations, business plans, budgets and summaries, photographs, drawings, specifications, software programs and samples, trade marks (both registered and unregistered), domain registrations and intended domain registrations or any documents derived from the foregoing, whoever prepares them, and also information or data disclosed by inspection of or visit to any property owned, used or occupied by any Party hereto and any other material bearing or incorporating any information of either Party disclosed or to be disclosed, which is identified as being of a confidential nature or ought to be regarded as such, whether in Writing orally or by any other means to one Party by the other Party directly or indirectly, whether before, on or after the date of this Agreement<P><B>(a) </B>Disclosed Information means such Information of the Disclosing Party that is disclosed     to the Receiving Party in terms of this Agreement.</P><P><B>(b) </B>Writing means any communication effected by document, telex, cable, fax, email, text message, web page or any other forms of written material transmitted electronically.</P>  

Parties=<U><B>Parties.</B></U> The term "Disclosing Party" shall mean the Party, which is disclosing Confidential Information, and the "Receiving Party" shall mean the Party to which the Confidential Information is disclosed.  The term "Parties" shall refer to all Parties to this Agreement and the term "Party" shall refer to one of the Parties.</P><P>A party who is not a party to this Agreement shall have no right to enforce any term of this Agreement. Any other Party than the one designated in this Agreement will have no access to confidential information exchanged during the designated period

Confidentiality=<U><B>Confidentiality.</B></U> Except as specifically permitted by the terms of this Agreement, the "Receiving Party" agrees not to disclose to any persons or entity for a period of two (2) years from the date of receipt of Confidential Information, any Confidential Information obtained by it from or disclosed to it by the Disclosing Party.

Protection=<U><B>Protection.</B></U> Unless written consent is otherwise granted by the Disclosing Party, the release, access to or use of disclosed Confidential Information shall be restricted to the Receiving Party and those employees, officers and any professional advisor or consultant of the Receiving Party and its parent company who have a need to know the Confidential Information in order to fulfill the Purpose. The Receiving Party shall procure that any such employees, officers and any professional advisor or consultant shall be notified of the confidential nature of the disclosed Confidential Information and shall use the same degree of care to protect the secrecy or confidentiality of the Confidential Information as it uses to protect its own Confidential Information.</P><P><B>(a) </B>Copies or reproductions shall not be made except to the extent reasonably necessary for the Project and all copies made shall be the property of the Disclosing Party. All copies of Disclosed Information made by the Receiving Party will contain the same proprietary and confidentiality notices as detailed on the original Disclosed Information.</P><P><B>(b) </B>All Confidential Information exchanged between the Parties is considered loaned for use solely in connection with the Purpose. The original and all copies of Confidential Information or any part thereof shall be returned by the Receiving Party to the Disclosing Party as soon as reasonably practicable following receipt of a written request therefore from the Disclosing Party except that <B>(i)</B> the Receiving Party may, upon written notice to the Disclosing Party, retain a single complete copy of the Confidential Information in the exclusive possession of its attorney or general counsel's office solely for use in connection with the defense of an dispute or enforcement of any right against the Disclosing Party arising from this Agreement; and <B>(ii)</B> the professional advisers of the Receiving Party may retain a single complete copy for the maintenance of proper professional records.

Handling=<U><B>Handling of disclosed information.</B></U>  The Receiving Party shall maintain the Disclosed Information in confidence and shall exercise in relation thereto reasonable security and no lesser security measures and degree of care than those which the Receiving Party applies to its own Information which the Receiving Party warrants as providing adequate protection against unauthorised disclosure copying or use.<P><B>(a)</B>  The Receiving Party shall ensure that disclosure of such Information is restricted to those of its employees, directors, consultants and professional advisers to whom disclosure of the Disclosed Information is necessary for the purposes of the Project PROVIDED THAT:<P>(i) in each and every case, such employees, directors, consultants and professional advisers owe a duty of confidentiality to the Receiving Party comparable to the duty of the Receiving Party detailed herein;</P><P>(ii) that duty extends to the Disclosed Information;</P><P>(iii)	such parties have been informed of the Disclosing Party's interest in the Disclosed Information and the terms of this Agreement;</P><P>(iv)	and are instructed that the Disclosed Information is confidential and that they must treat it as secret and confidential in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement; and </P><P>(v)	in the case of its consultants and professional advisers, the Receiving Party notifies the Disclosing Party in Writing of their identity prior to disclosing any Information to them and the Disclosing Party shall have the right within two working days of such notification to request that a confidentiality undertaking be entered into direct between the Disclosing Party and such consultant or professional adviser prior to any disclosure of Disclosed Information.</P></P><P><B>(b)</B> Copies or reproductions shall not be made except to the extent reasonably necessary for the Project and all copies made shall be the property of the Disclosing Party. All copies of Disclosed Information made by the Receiving Party will contain the same proprietary and confidentiality notices as detailed on the original Disclosed Information.</P><P><B>(c)</B> All Disclosed Information and copies thereof shall be returned to the Disclosing Party    forthwith upon receipt of a written request from the Disclosing Party. In such event the Receiving Party undertakes to destroy all documentation generated from or incorporating any Disclosed Information including any copies and/or erase or procure that there be erased, all Disclosed Information and any copies from any computer, word processor or other device containing such Disclosed Information, in a manner prescribed by the Disclosing Party, and thereafter certify to the Disclosing Party that it has complied with the terms of this section (c).</P>

Exceptions=<U><B>Exceptions.</B></U> The "Receiving Party" may disclose Confidential Information to the extent it is required to be disclosed pursuant to the binding order of a government agency or a competent court or arbitrator, or the rules and procedures of a relevant recognized investment exchange, so long as the Receiving Party, insofar as it is legally able to do so, provides the Disclosing Party with notice of such requirement prior to any such disclosure and co-operates fully with the Disclosing Party's reasonable instructions (at the Disclosing Party's expense) in resisting any such requirement.<P><B>(a)</B> All Confidential Information exchanged between the Parties is considered loaned for use solely in connection with the Purpose. The original and all copies of Confidential Information or any part thereof shall be returned by the Receiving Party to the Disclosing Party as soon as reasonably practicable following receipt of a written request therefore from the Disclosing Party except that (i) the Receiving Party may, upon written notice to the Disclosing Party, retain a single complete copy of the Confidential Information in the exclusive possession of its attorney or general counsel's office solely for use in connection with the defense of an dispute or enforcement of any right against the Disclosing Party arising from this Agreement; and (ii) the professional advisers of the Receiving Party may retain a single complete copy for the maintenance of proper professional records. </P><P><B>(b)</B> No representation or warranty is made or implied with respect to any Confidential Information provided by the Disclosing Party regarding, but not limited to, its accuracy, legality or completeness.  This Agreement shall not be construed as granting or conferring any rights, by license or otherwise, in any Confidential Information disclosed under this Agreement.</P>

Assignment=<U><B>Assignment.</B></U> Neither Party will assign this Agreement or otherwise part with Confidential Information received from the other Party except to a member for the time being of such Party's group of companies or except as otherwise permitted by this Agreement.

Obligations=<U><B>Obligations.</B></U> The release of Confidential Information disclosed under this Agreement shall not obligate either of the Parties to provide any additional or updated Confidential Information. In addition, neither the release of Confidential Information nor any other fact or circumstance in connection with this Agreement will in any way obligate either Party to proceed further with the Purpose or any other further agreement with the other Party.

Remedies=<U><B>Remedies.</B></U> In the event of a breach of any of the foregoing provisions the Receiving Party agrees that the harm suffered by the injured Party would be compensated by monetary damages of the lesser of actual assessed damages and 100 000 (one Hundred thousand) Euros for every breach and, accordingly, that the injured party shall, in addition to other available legal remedies, be entitled to an injunction against such breach.

ThirdParties=<U><B>Third Parties.</B></U> A party who is not a party to this Agreement shall have no right to enforce any term of this Agreement. Any other Party than the one designated in this Agreement will have no access to confidential information exchanged during the designated period. 

Duration=<U><B>Duration. </B></U>This Non Disclosure Agreement will be in effect for one (1) year from the date of its execution, unless extended, amended or terminated by mutual agreement of the parties. Either party may terminate this agreement early by sending written notice to the other party.  In case the Parties sign a Business Agreement within one (1) year from the start of this Agreement, this Agreement will be automatically renewed for another period of three (1) year and so on without any other notice. However, the limitations of the disclosure and use of Proprietary Information survive expiration or termination and binding upon Recipient for a period of three (3) years after the End Date. Within thirty (30) business days after termination of this agreement, upon Owner's request, Recipient shall return to Owner all tangible items relating to Proprietary information, including all written material, software, photographs, models, compounds, compositions, and all copies.  

GoverningLawArbitration=<U><B>Governing law and Arbitration clause. </B></U>This Agreement shall be construed under and in accordance with the laws of France. Any dispute arising in connection with this Agreement shall be resolved by arbitration under the auspices of the INTERNATIONAL CHAMBER OF ARBITRATION OF PARIS (6, avenue Pierre 1er de Serbie, 75116 PARIS phone: 01.42.36.99.65, fax: 01.42. 36.99.58), in accordance with the Rules that the parties declare to know and accept.  
