Ti=Appendix

0.sec=The following sections are optional for inclusion in Outside Counsel Guidelines. 

1.Ti=Acceptable Currencies

1.sec={Company.Name.Full}’s various corporate entities can only pay in specific currencies.  {Invoice.Pay.Currency.Schedule.Xref} sets out the currencies {Company.Name.Full} will accept and remit payment.  To ensure timely payment, outside counsel must confirm with {Company.Name.Full}’s Billing Coordinator before billing in non-authorized currencies. Any invoices submitted using non-authorized currencies will cause a delay in payment. 

2.Ti=Rate Schedule

2.sec=The following sections are optional for inclusion in Outside Counsel Guidelines. 

3.Ti=Information Security Assessments

3.1.sec={Company.Name.Full} recognizes the critical importance of information security. Just as {Company.Name.Full} makes every effort to ensure the security of confidential information that our customers and partners share with us, we expect that outside counsel will implement adequate controls in order to secure the confidential information we entrust to our law firms for safekeeping. 

3.2.sec=As outside counsel is often privy to some of the most sensitive data of {Company.Name.Full} and/or our customers, we reserve the right to assess the information security practices of outside counsel as we deem necessary. The {Company.Name.Full} Information Technology department has developed the {Company.Name.Full} Information Security Review (“{Def.ISR.sec}”) Program to facilitate the assessments. The goal of the {_ISR} Program is to identify existing or potential risks that could adversely affect {Company.Name.Full} its customers, and/or its business activities. The assessments evaluate outside counsel’s data and technology related controls. If and when control deficiencies are identified, outside counsel must commit to take corrective action to eliminate, or significantly reduce the associated risk. Periodic re-evaluation of outside counsel’s controls helps to assure that adequate security measures remain in place and are adjusted accordingly as the scope or nature of the information being shared evolves. 

#Note=Should be customized to meet your program

3.3.0.sec=The following stages form our standard ”{_ISR}” process: 

3.3.1.sec=An analyst assesses the nature of the service offering, the associated inherent risk, and determines the type of information security review needed. 

3.3.2.sec=A link to the information security questionnaire is sent via email to the contact(s) to complete and submit the review form via an online web page. 

3.3.3.sec=The analyst reviews the questionnaire submission and generates a report of the findings and sends it to the Relationship Owner (”{Def.RO.sec}”). 

3.3.4.sec=The {_RO}, along with the assistance of the {_ISR} analyst, schedules and conducts a meeting with the service provider to review their survey responses. Any identified information security issues, control deficiencies or areas of concern are discussed, as necessary, and risk ranked. 

3.3.5.sec=A remedial plan for correcting any issues or control deficiencies is obtained from the service provider and reviewed for completeness. Timescales for remediation are set and agreed between the {Company.Name.Full} and the service provider. 

3.3.6.sec=The service provider is monitored by the {_RO} to ensure all issues are corrected according to the agreed plan. 

3.3.7.sec=The service provider is subject to a periodic re-evaluation based on the inherent risk and nature of the services provided to {Company.Name.Full}

3.3.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s7]

3.4.sec=Additionally, outside counsel will maintain and enforce at any facilities where any outside counsel services are performed, other than {Company.Name.Full} facilities, safety and information security procedures that are at in line with {_ISR} Program requirements. In addition, when onsite at {Company.Name.Full} outside counsel will comply with all reasonable requirements of {Company.Name.Full} with respect to its facilities.

3.=[G/Z/ol/s4]

4.Ti=Dashboard / Metrics

#Note=Suggested for top firms.

4.sec=Data is powerful.  We know that our outside counsel generates and track a significant amount of data about its clients and the matters on which it works.  On at least a quarterly basis, {Company.Name.Full} asks that each of its outside counsel prepare and send to Legal Operations a dashboard or report of various metrics highlighting the relationship between the parties.  The dashboard should include, at a minimum, the total invoiced amounts across all matters, the timekeepers staffed to matters, and the mix of AFAs provided.  Also, outside counsel should include any other metrics that it thinks would be useful in showing the value of services provided and the effectiveness and efficiency of outside counsel.

5.Ti=Conflict of Interest 

5.sec=Our outside counsel must not represent a client that has an interest adverse to {Company.Name.Full}, without our advance permission. Prior to agreeing to represent {Company.Name.Full} in a matter, outside counsel must complete, at its expense, a conflict check. The firm must determine that there are no conflicts or potential conflicts of interest with present or former clients of your firm that have not been resolved in writing between {Company.Name.Full} and your firm.  We expect that you will immediately inform {Company.Name.Full} of any potential conflicts that may arise during the course of your firm’s work for {Company.Name.Full} Should a conflict be discovered at any time after {Company.Name.Full} has engaged your firm and should the conflict result in your firm’s withdrawal from a matter (whether at your, {Company.Name.Full}’s or a third party’s request), you agree to reimburse {Company.Name.Full} for all costs and fees for work that must be duplicated by {Company.Name.Full} as a result of your withdrawal from the matter. 

6.Ti=Third Party Providers

6.1.Ti=Court Reporters

6.1.sec=We have selected {Vendor.CourtReporting.Name.Full} as our court reporting service provider. Please remember we will not pay for videotaped depositions without prior, written approval, and we require that you provide us with an electronic copy of any transcripts for court reporter services for our matter(s). 

6.2.Ti=Translation Services

6.2.sec=We have selected {Vendor.TranslationServices.Name.Full} as our general translation and interpretation service providers.

6.=[G/Z/ol-a/2]

7.Ti=Dispute Resolution

7.0.sec=The following sections are optional for inclusion in Outside Counsel {_Guidelines}. 

7.1.Ti=Option A ??

7.1.1.Ti=Escalation of {_Dispute}s

7.1.1.sec=The parties agree to escalate any conflicts, disputes, or controversies (collectively “{Def.Dispute.sec}s”) arising out of or relating to these {_Guidelines}, the {_Engagement_Letter}, any Statement of Work, the Patent Prosecution Outside Counsel Requirements, or other document expressly amending the aforementioned (collectively, the “{Def.Engagement_Terms.sec}”), to their respective managers before filing any legal action.  The managers will meet and work in good faith to resolve the {_Dispute} within a reasonable time period.

7.1.2.Ti=Mandatory Mediation

7.1.2.sec=If the parties are unable to resolve the dispute as described above, either party may file a mediation demand with JAMS of Northern California, with the mediation to take place in Santa Clara County, California. The parties will work in good faith to select a mediator who is knowledgeable and experienced in the subject matter. All negotiations in connection with a {_Dispute}, including negotiations with a mediator, will be conducted in confidence and without prejudice to the rights of the parties in any future legal proceedings. Neither party may file a lawsuit until the completion of the mediation described in this section.  Each party will be responsible for their respective legal fees, except that the cost of the mediation will be divided equally between the parties.  	

7.1.3.Ti=Choice of Law, Venue, Jurisdiction

7.1.3.0.sec=After the completion of the mediation described above, if no resolution is reached, a party may file a lawsuit to redress the {_Dispute} at issue in the mediation, as follows:

7.1.3.1.Ti=Choice of Law

7.1.3.1.sec=The {_Engagement_Terms} will be interpreted, construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of California (without giving effect to its conflicts of law principles).

7.1.3.2.Ti=Venue and Jurisdiction

7.1.3.2.sec=The federal district court in and for the Northern District of California or the Superior Court of Santa Clara County, California will have the exclusive jurisdiction and be the venue for any action initiated to enforce the {_Engagement_Terms}. The Parties waive all defenses of lack of personal jurisdiction and forum non-convenience.	

7.1.3.=[G/Z/ol/2]

7.1.=[G/Z/ol/3]

7.2.Ti=Option B ??

7.2.1.Ti=Choice of Law and Arbitration

7.2.1.sec=This Agreement is governed by California law, and any disputes arising under it will be resolved by binding arbitration according to the rules of the American Arbitration Association, with the arbitration taking place in Santa Clara County, California.

7.2.=[G/Z/ol/1]

7.=[G/Z/ol/2]

=[G/Z/ol-AA/7]
