Note=Paste from Word - <a href="https://www.ott.nih.gov/sites/default/files/documents/docs/NIH-Patent-License-Exclusive-model-102015.docx">https://www.ott.nih.gov/sites/default/files/documents/docs/NIH-Patent-License-Exclusive-model-102015.docx</a>

PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE

Doc.Title=PATENT LICENSE AGREEMENT – EXCLUSIVE

Intro.=[Wx/gov/nih/ott/License/Patent/Exclusive/Sec/Intro_v01.md]
Secs={Background.Sec}<li>{Def.Sec}<li>{Grant.Sec}<li>{Sublicense.Sec}<li>{Statutory.Sec}<li>{Comp.Sec}<li>{Prosecution.Sec}<li>{Record.Sec}<li>{Report.Sec}<li>{Commerce.Sec}<li>{Infringement.Sec}<li>{WarrantyAndIndemnity.Sec}<li>{Term.Sec}<li>{Misc.Sec}

Background.=[Wx/gov/nih/ott/License/Patent/Exclusive/Sec/Background_v01.md]

Def.=[Wx/gov/nih/ott/License/Patent/Exclusive/Sec/Definitions_v01.md]

Grant.=[Wx/gov/nih/ott/License/Patent/Exclusive/Sec/GrantOfRights_v01.md]

Sublicense.=[Wx/gov/nih/ott/License/Patent/Exclusive/Sec/Sublicensing_v01.md]

Statutory.=[Wx/gov/nih/ott/License/Patent/Exclusive/Sec/StatutoryRequirements_v01.md]

Comp.=[Wx/gov/nih/ott/License/Patent/Exclusive/Sec/RoyaltiesAndReimbursement_v01.md]

Prosecution.=[Wx/gov/nih/ott/License/Patent/Exclusive/Sec/PatentProsecution_v01.md]

Record.=[Wx/gov/nih/ott/License/Patent/Exclusive/Sec/RecordKeeping_v01.md]

Report.=[Wx/gov/nih/ott/License/Patent/Exclusive/Sec/Reports_v01.md]

Commerce.=[Wx/gov/nih/ott/License/Patent/Exclusive/Sec/Performance_v01.md]

Infringement.=[Wx/gov/nih/ott/License/Patent/Exclusive/Sec/InfringementAndEnforcement_v01.md]

WarrantyAndIndemnity.=[Wx/gov/nih/ott/License/Patent/Exclusive/Sec/NegationOfWarrantiesAndIndemnification_v01.md]

Term.=[Wx/gov/nih/ott/License/Patent/Exclusive/Sec/TermTerminationAndModification_v01.md]

Misc.=[Wx/gov/nih/ott/License/Patent/Exclusive/Sec/Miscellaneous_v01.md]

SIGNATURES BEGIN ON NEXT PAGE


90.Ti=</i>
90.1.Sec=SIGNATURE PAGE

90.2.Sec={Attach.Sec}



For the IC:
____________ DRAFT ________________________		_______________
Name	Date
Title
Officee
National Institutes of Health
Mailing Address or E-mail Address for Agreement notices and reports:
License Compliance and Administration
Monitoring & Enforcement
Office of Technology Transfer
National Institutes of Health
6011 Executive Boulevard, Suite 325
Rockville, Maryland  20852-3804 U.S.A.
E-mail: LicenseNotices_Reports@mail.nih.gov
For the Licensee (Upon, information and belief, the undersigned expressly certifies or affirms that the contents of any statements of the Licensee made or referred to in this document are truthful and accurate.):
by:
____________ DRAFT ________________________		_______________
Signature of Authorized Official	Date
	
Printed Name
	
Title
I.	Official and Mailing Address for Agreement notices:
	
Name
	
Title
Mailing Address
	
	
	
	
Email Address:		
Phone:		
Fax:		

II.	Official and Mailing Address for Financial notices (the Licensee’s contact person for royalty payments)
	
Name
	
Title
Mailing Address:
	
	
	
	
Email Address:		
Phone:		
Fax:		
Any false or misleading statements made, presented, or submitted to the Government, including any relevant omissions, under this Agreement and during the course of negotiation of this Agreement are subject to all applicable civil and criminal statutes including Federal statutes 31 U.S.C. §§3801-3812 (civil liability) and 18 U.S.C. §1001 (criminal liability including fine(s) or imprisonment).

Attach.Ti=APPENDIXES

Attach.1.Ti=APPENDIX A – PATENT(S) OR PATENT APPLICATION(S)
Patent(s) or Patent Application(s):
I.	
II.	
III.	
IV.	
V.	
Attach.2.Ti=APPENDIX B – LICENSED FIELDS OF USE AND TERRITORY
I.	Licensed Fields of Use:
(a)	

II.	Licensed Territory:

Attach.3.Ti=APPENDIX C – ROYALTIES
Royalties:
I.	The Licensee agrees to pay to the IC a noncreditable, nonrefundable license issue royalty in the amount of ________ dollars ($X) within sixty (60) days from the effective date of this Agreement.
II.	The Licensee agrees to pay to the IC a nonrefundable minimum annual royalty in the amount of ________ dollars ($X) as follows:
(a)	The first minimum annual royalty is due within sixty (60) days of the effective date of this Agreement and may be prorated according to the fraction of the calendar year remaining between the effective date of this Agreement and the next subsequent January 1; and
(b)	Subsequent minimum annual royalty payments are due and payable on January 1 of each calendar year and may be credited against any earned royalties due for sales made in that year.
III.	The Licensee agrees to pay the IC earned royalties of _____ percent (X%) on Net Sales by or on behalf of the Licensee and its sublicensees.
IV.	The Licensee agrees to pay the IC Benchmark royalties within sixty (60) days of achieving each Benchmark:
(a)	
(b)	
(c)	
(d)	
(e)	

V.	The Licensee agrees to pay the IC additional sublicensing royalties of ____ percent (X%) on the fair market value of any consideration received for granting each sublicense within sixty (60) days of the execution of each sublicense.

Attach.4.Ti=APPENDIX D – BENCHMARKS AND PERFORMANCE
The Licensee agrees to the following Benchmarks for its performance under this Agreement and, within thirty (30) days of achieving a Benchmark, shall notify the IC that the Benchmark has been achieved.
I.	
II.	
III.	
IV.	
V.	
VI.	
VII.	
Attach.5.Ti=APPENDIX E – COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN

Attach.6.Ti=APPENDIX F – EXAMPLE ROYALTY REPORT
Required royalty report information includes:
•	License reference number (L-XXX-200X/0)
•	Reporting period
•	Catalog number and units sold of each Licensed Product (domestic and foreign)
•	Gross Sales per catalog number per country
•	Total Gross Sales
•	Itemized deductions from Gross Sales
•	Total Net Sales
•	Earned Royalty Rate and associated calculations
•	Gross Earned Royalty
•	Adjustments for Minimum Annual Royalty (MAR) and other creditable payments made
•	Net Earned Royalty due
Example
Catalog Number	Product Name	Country	Units Sold	Gross Sales (US$)
1	A	US	250	62,500
1	A	UK	32	16,500
1	A	France	25	15,625
2	B	US	0	0
3	C	US	57	57,125
4	D	US	12	1,500
Total Gross Sales	153,250
Less Deductions:
Freight	3,000
Returns	7,000
Total Net Sales	143,250
Royalty Rate	8%
Royalty Due	11,460
Less Creditable Payments	10,000
Net Royalty Due	1,460

Attach.7.Ti=APPENDIX G – ROYALTY PAYMENT OPTIONS
The License Number MUST appear on payments, reports and correspondence.

Credit and Debit Card Payments

Credit and debit card payments can be submitted for amounts up to $29,999.  Submit your payment through the U.S. Treasury web site located at:  https://www.pay.gov/public/form/start/28680443.  

Automated Clearing House (ACH) for payments through U.S. banks only 

The IC encourages its licensees to submit electronic funds transfer payments through the Automated Clearing House (ACH). Submit your ACH payment through the U.S. Treasury web site located at: https://www.pay.gov/public/form/start/28680443.    Please note that the IC “only” accepts ACH payments through this U.S. Treasury web site.  

Electronic Funds Wire Transfers 

The following account information is provided for wire payments.  In order to process payment via Electronic Funds Wire Transfer sender MUST supply the following information within the transmission:

Drawn on a U.S. bank account via FEDWIRE should be sent directly to the following account:

Beneficiary Account:		Federal Reserve Bank of New York or TREAS NYC
Bank:				Federal Reserve Bank of New York
ABA#				021030004
Account Number:			75080031
Bank Address:			33 Liberty Street, New York, NY 10045
	Payment Details:	License Number (L-XXX-XXXX)
		Name of the Licensee

	Drawn on a foreign bank account should be sent directly to the following account.  Payment must be sent in U.S. Dollars (USD) using the following instructions:

	Beneficiary Account:	Federal Reserve Bank of New York/ITS or FRBNY/ITS
	Bank:             	Citibank N.A. (New York)
	SWIFT Code:	CITIUS33
	Account Number:	36838868
	Bank Address:	388 Greenwich Street, New York, NY 10013
	Payment Details (Line 70):	NIH 75080031
		License Number (L-XXX-XXXX)
		Name of the Licensee
	Detail of Charges (line 71a): 	Charge Our
	 
Checks

All checks should be made payable to “NIH Patent Licensing”

Checks drawn on a U.S. bank account and sent by US Postal Service should be sent directly to the following address:

National Institutes of Health
P.O. Box 979071
St. Louis, MO 63197-9000

Checks drawn on a U.S. bank account and sent by overnight or courier should be sent to the following address:

US Bank 
Government Lockbox SL-MO-C2GL 
1005 Convention Plaza 
St. Louis, MO 63101
Phone: 314-418-4087

Checks drawn on a foreign bank account should be sent directly to the following address: 

National Institutes of Health
Office of Technology Transfer
•	License Compliance and Administration
•	Royalty Administration
6011 Executive Boulevard
Suite 325, MSC 7660
Rockville, Maryland 20852

   
Attach.=[Z/ol/7]

90.=[Z/ol/2]

DocBody={Doc}

=[F/US/00/Agt/Base/Form/0.md]

=[Wx/gov/nih/ott/License/Patent/Exclusive/Out/_v01.md]