
Ti=The Constitution of Mars

Note=Framers: Michael Gary, Rabhya Mehrotra, Matthew Meyers, Monique Nikolov, Anna Ravn Oestergaard,
Zoe Robertson, Diego Salazar Guerra, Andrew Sorota, Victoria Winter

Why.Ti=Preamble

Why.0.sec=We, the drafters;

Why.1.sec=Resolved to reduce suffering and restore beauty; Determined to live together in a free and sovereign state;

Why.2.sec=Without influence or interference from Earth;

Why.3.sec=Dedicated to freedom, respect, equity, and diversity;

Why.4.sec=Conscious of our responsibility to future generations;

Why.5.sec=Aware of our commitment to protect and serve our fellow community members; Agree to the Constitution of Mars as follows:

Why.=[G/Z/ol-none/s5]

0.sec={Why.Sec}

1.Ti=Section 1. The Bill of Human Rights

1.1.Ti=Article 1: Statement on Equality Under the Law

1.1.sec=Everyone shall be equal before the law and enjoy human rights irrespective of gender, sexuality, race, ethnicity, national origin, ability, religion or lack thereof, opinion, or other status. The Bill of Rights thus applies to all law, and binds the legislature, the executive, the judiciary and all organs of state to provide for these rights and prevent their infringement.

1.2.Ti=Article 2: Fundamental Rights

1.2.1.0.sec=All individuals are alike in their ability to exercise the following rights:

1.2.1.1.sec=I. Right to adequate food, water, shelter, oxygen, and any other accommodations necessary to
survive on Mars;

1.2.1.2.sec=II. Right to bodily and psychological integrity;

1.2.1.3.sec=III. Right to receive treatment for physical and mental health;

1.2.1.4.sec=IV. Right to hold opinions and beliefs;

1.2.1.5.0.sec=V. Right to speak freely:

1.2.1.5.1.sec=A. Precludes speech with the principal purpose of inciting violence,

1.2.1.5.2.sec=B. Precludes speech that is purposefully hateful based on gender, sexuality, race, ethnicity,
ability, national origin, and that constitutes incitement to cause harm;

1.2.1.5.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s2]

1.2.1.6.sec=VI. Right to practice or not practice a religion;

1.2.1.7.sec=VII. Right to peacefully protest the actions of the government;

1.2.1.8.sec=VIII. Right to privacy and freedom from arbitrary government interference;

1.2.1.9.sec=IX. Right to an education;

1.2.1.10.sec=X. Right to pursue lawful profession;

1.2.1.11.0.sec=XI. Right to citizenship and to expeditious naturalization for non-citizens:

1.2.1.11.1.sec=A. All may pursue Martian citizenship; children of Martian citizens are citizens at birth,

1.2.1.11.2.sec=B. All born on Martian soil are citizens at birth,

1.2.1.11.3.sec=C. No one shall be deprived of citizenship

1.2.1.11.4.sec=D. Martians may hold multinational citizenship with agreeing planets and countries.

1.2.1.11.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s4]

1.2.1.=[G/Z/ol-II/s11]

1.2.2.0.sec=Citizens are alike in their ability to exercise the following rights:

1.2.2.1.sec=XII. Right to be eligible to serve on standing mini-publics and ad-hoc mini-publics;

1.2.2.2.sec=XIII. Right to be eligible for selection by the Central Chamber if serving on a standing or ad-hoc
mini-public;

1.2.2.3.sec=XIV. Right to propose the creation of an ad-hoc mini-public;

1.2.2.4.sec=XV. Right to propose any popular initiative and referendum as outlined in this constitution;

1.2.2.5.sec=XVI. Right to vote on all popular initiatives and referendums that obtain the appropriate signature
thresholds.

Note=Special tweak to permit numbering to continue from prior section. 

1.2.2.xlist=<ol type="I" start="12"><li>{1.2.2.1.sec}<li>{1.2.2.2.sec}<li>{1.2.2.3.sec}<li>{1.2.2.4.sec}<li>{1.2.2.5.sec}</ol>

1.2.2.=[G/Z/ol-II/s5]

1.2.3.sec=The enumeration of these rights shall not be taken to deny other rights retained by the people.

1.2.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

1.3.Ti=Article 3: Stratified Sampling Criteria

1.3.1.0.sec=I. When referring to a stratified sampling process, the following criteria shall include, but not be limited to, the following factors:

1.3.1.1.sec=A. Race / Ethnicity;

1.3.1.2.sec=B. Gender / Sexual Identity;

1.3.1.3.sec=C. Class;

1.3.1.4.sec=D. Age (16 and older);

1.3.1.5.sec=E. Ability;

1.3.1.6.sec=F. Participation in past and current government institutions

1.3.1.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s6]

1.3.=[G/Z/ol-II/s1]

1.4.Ti=Article 4: Criminal Rights

1.4.1.0.sec=All accused are alike in their ability to exercise the following rights:

1.4.1.1.sec=I. Right to be recognized as innocent until proven guilty;

1.4.1.2.sec=II. Right to be informed of their crime;

1.4.1.3.sec=III. Right to avoid self-incrimination;

1.4.1.4.sec=IV. Right to due process;

1.4.1.5.sec=V. Right to not be subject to warrantless searches;

1.4.1.6.sec=VI. Right to confront the witness against them and to choose witnesses in their favor;

1.4.1.7.sec=VII. Right to counsel in their defense;

1.4.1.8.sec=VIII. Right to a speedy and public trial by an impartial jury selected by a stratified sampling as outlined
in Section 1, Article 3;

1.4.1.9.sec=IX. Right to release from jail prior to trial through completing community service hours, unless
proven to be a threat to oneself or others;

1.4.1.=[G/Z/ol-II/s9]

1.4.2.0.sec=All found guilty are alike in their ability to exercise the following rights:

1.4.2.1.sec=X. Right to rehabilitation in a facility that prioritizes reintegration,

1.4.2.2.sec=XI. Right to a just punishment that excludes torture or capital punishment;

1.4.2.xlist=<ol type="I" start="10"><li>{1.4.2.1.sec}<li>{1.4.2.2.sec}</ol>

1.4.2.=[G/Z/ol-II/s2]

1.4.3.sec=All non-violent, reformed offenders are alike in their ability to exercise the rights granted to them in Article 2.

1.4.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

1.5.Ti=Article 5: Digital Rights

1.5.1.0.sec=All citizens are alike in their ability to exercise the following rights:

1.5.1.1.sec=I. Right to be the sole owner of their personal data;

1.5.1.2.sec=II. Right to digital anonymity;

1.5.1.3.sec=III. Right to knowledge of what private data is collected and to whom who it sold;

1.5.1.4.sec=IV. Right to be forgotten in terms of their online personal data;

1.5.1.5.sec=V. Right to due process of law when metadata is collected;

1.5.1.6.sec=VI. Right to a net-neutral internet.

1.5.1.=[G/Z/ol-II/s6]

1.5.=[G/Z/ol/s1]

1.=[G/Z/ol/5]

2.Ti=Section 2. Non-human Rights on Mars

2.1.Ti=Article 1: Animal Rights

2.1.1.0.sec=I. “Animals” refers to living organisms with sense organs and the ability to respond and interact with their environments:

2.1.1.1.sec=A. This definition does not include stem cells or lab-grown living organisms. These objects do not have a consciousness, so we do not presume them to be sentient in the way that animals are;

2.1.1.2.sec=B. If a conscious being is discovered that does not fit this definition of animal or new evidence suggests that a previously discovered being has consciousness, an ad-hoc mini-public will be called to consider amendments to this definition as organized by the governance standing mini-public;

2.1.1.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s2]

2.1.2.0.sec=II. Prior to making the conscious decision to bring animals to Mars, caretakers of such beings must register their actions with the executive body associated with the Environmental Policy standing mini-public. After registration, caretakers must receive approval from a sorted committee of Mars Logistical Life Planners, which will have been sorted by the first cohort of settlers prior to departure for Mars:

2.1.2.1.0.sec=A. The sorted Mars Logistical Life Planners committee will be decided through the following process:

2.1.2.1.1.sec=1. Subgroups of the initial Mars cohort set to travel will be created based on stratified sampling (see dimensions outlined in Section 1, Article 3),

2.1.2.1.2.sec=2. Of these subgroups, sortition will be used to select 10 representatives for the Mars Logistical Life Planners committee;

2.1.2.1.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

2.1.2.2.0.sec=B. The Mars Logistical Life Planners will approve of animal caretaker requests based on how necessary the beings are for the following purposes:

2.1.2.2.1.sec=1. Mutually beneficial companionship,

2.1.2.2.2.sec=2. Terraforming,

2.1.2.2.3.sec=3. Geoforming;

2.1.2.2.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

2.1.2.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s2]

2.1.3.0.sec=III. All animals will be afforded basic decency in terms of treatment. “Basic decency” includes but is not limited to the following:

2.1.3.1.sec=A. Minimizing needless suffering caused to animals;

2.1.3.2.sec=B. Affording animals basic necessities including food, water, and shelter.

2.1.3.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s2]

2.1.=[G/Z/ol-II/s3]

2.2.Ti=Article 2: Rights of Nature

2.2.1.sec=I. Nature is defined as the system of living and nonliving organisms which interact to create ecosystems. It is distinguished from people, and its rights ought to be distinct as well;

2.2.2.sec=II. Nature has intrinsic value beyond its purposes for human-kind and beyond property;

2.2.3.sec=III. Nature has the right to exist. This means that all Martian policy must respect the rights of Nature in addition to those of its other beings.

2.2.=[G/Z/ol-II/s3]

2.=[G/Z/ol/2]

3.Ti=Section 3: The Legislature

3.1.Ti=Article 1: Single-Issue Mini-Publics

3.1.1.sec=I. The Legislature shall consist of a set of mini-publics, hereby known as standing mini-publics, which have authority to create laws in a policy area corresponding to their jurisdiction;

3.1.2.0.sec=At the creation of this Constitution, six standing mini-publics shall exist:

3.1.2.1.sec=Foreign Policy and Earth and Interstellar Relations, tasked with reviewing the state of the societies relationships with other countries, planets, and societies. This may involve, but is not limited to, the creation of embassies, the proposal and evaluation of treaties, and the chartering of international or interstellar voyages,

3.1.2.2.sec=Social Policy and Welfare, tasked with creating policies to provide for the distribution of governmental resources and benefits. This may involve, but is not limited to, the creation of educational systems and standards, the creation of consumer protection standards, creation of labor regulations, and the creation of welfare programs designed to uplift members of society,

3.1.2.3.sec=Environmental Policy, tasked with protecting the environment and natural resources of the planet in accordance with the rights of humans and animals of this constitution. This may involve, but is not limited to, the regulation of industry, the preservation of land, and investment in programs which have the potential to improve the environment,

3.1.2.4.sec=Economic Policy, tasked with managing the fiscal, monetary, and economic situation of the country. This may include, but is not limited to, taxation, commerce regulations, and stimulus spending,

3.1.2.5.sec=Civil Rights, tasked with ensuring justice for all citizens regardless of race, gender, sexual orientation, or any other identity. This may include, but is not limited to regulation of the workplace or commerce to ensure equity, the regulation of the justice system, or the creation of programs to ensure tolerance,

3.1.2.6.sec=Governmental Oversight, tasked with overseeing the operations of government to ensure that it is following the principles of the constitution and of law. This includes the establishment of rules in mini-publics to ensure deliberation, the organization of new approved ad-hoc mini-publics, the oversight of the stratified sampling process, preventing judicial and executive overreach, and ensuring that the executive and judicial branch are diverse in background and demographics;


3.1.3.0.sec=III. Members of standing mini-publics shall serve in two year terms:

3.1.3.1.sec=A. The initial term shall be split into a group with a one year term and a group with a two year term, both meeting the requirements for stratified sampling,

3.1.3.2.sec=B. Each year, a new class shall replace the outgoing class,

3.1.3.3.sec=C. Members of mini-publics whose terms will elapse at the same time are hereby known as legislative groups;


3.1.4.sec=IV. All citizens above the age of 16 are eligible to serve in mini-publics;

3.1.5.sec=V. Standing Mini-Publics shall consist of 250 individuals.

3.2.Ti=Article 2: Central Chamber

3.2.1.sec=I. The Central Chamber shall be composed of 1⁄5 (50 people) of the members from the standing mini-publics. However, the ad-hoc mini-publics can enter a process to become permanent and thus gain entry to the central chamber. At the time of this Constitution’s creation, the Central Chamber shall be composed of 300 members;

3.2.2.sec=II. The members in the Central Chamber shall be selected by stratified random sampling (see dimensions outlined in Section 1, Article 3) within each chamber;

3.2.3.sec=III. The Central Chamber is responsible for evaluating the policy proposals sent by the single-issue chambers. When evaluating policies, the Central Chamber’s main goal is to ensure coherence between different chambers on policy issues (for example, a carbon tax policy may need to be consistent across an Economic and Environmental chamber). The Central Chamber must also ensure that all policy proposals passed fit into its yearly budget;

3.2.4.sec=IV. The Central Chamber may determine if a policy created by a mini-public is out of its scope; that is to say, it is not inside the policy area it’s been assigned to;

3.2.5.0.sec=V. The Central Chamber holds final veto power over policies proposed by the single-issue chambers.

3.2.5.1.sec=A. However, the citizens of Mars may serve as a check to the Central Chamber’s power: When the Central Chamber approves a policy, citizens may raise a popular initiative to propose an alternative law. When the Central Chamber denies a proposal, citizens may raise a referendum to vote on the passing on the law;

3.2.6.sec=VI. The Central Chamber will determine the yearly Government budget.

3.3.Ti=Article 3: Selection

3.3.1.sec=I. All mini-public seats shall be filled by stratified random sampling;

3.3.2.sec=II. The governance committee shall conduct this sampling, and is responsible for reaching out to the selected members of the mini-public;

3.3.3.sec=III. The Governmental Oversight mini-public shall review the process of stratified sampling (see dimensions outlined in Section 1, Article 3) every five years to determine that the process is a) not corrupted or inaccurate and b) the stratified variables account for the population’s diversity. Furthermore, the government oversight mini-public shall review whether the method of outreach for the stratified sampling (i.e on the landline, mail, or Internet, etc.) is not inherently exclusionary and benefits one group;

3.3.4.0.sec=IV. Once a citizen is selected by the sampling process, they must participate except for extraordinary circumstances:

3.3.4.1.sec=A. If citizens are not able to participate, they may petition their case to an Appeal committee. Certain urgent excuses such as pregnancy, recent childbirth (2 years or less), and serious illnesses will be automatically accepted upon receiving medical evidence.

3.3.4.2.sec=B. Other excuses – whether economic or personal – will be reviewed on a case by case basis,

3.3.4.3.sec=C. The Appeal committee will not take more than a month to respond to a citizen’s request.

3.3.4.4.sec=D. Citizenship entails participation in government, as such, citizens are urged to not appeal unless their circumstances forbid participation;

3.3.4.5.sec=V. If a citizen is unable to participate, they will fulfill some other mode of community engagement;

3.3.4.6.sec=VI. Those participating will be paid among the 70th percentile of the national income.

3.4.sec=Article 4: Ad-Hoc Mini-Publics

3.4.1.sec=I. Citizens and groups reserve the right to propose the creation of a mini-public, henceforth known as an ad-hoc mini-public, which shall deliberate on a specific issue area set forth at the time that the ad-hoc mini-public is proposed;

3.4.2.sec=II. Ad-hoc mini-publics may cover any specific issue area, particularly those that intersect jurisdictions of standing mini-publics, reflect major conflicts in society, or reflect a major crisis;

3.4.3.0.sec=III. Declarations of intent for an ad-hoc mini-public may be initiated by anyone and must include:

3.4.3.1.sec=A. A description of the policy areas that the mini-public has the power to discuss,

3.4.3.2.sec=B. A specified duration of the mini-public which shall not be shorter than 1 Earth year;

3.4.4.sec=IV. Declarations of intent for the Ad-Hoc Mini-Public shall be processed by the executive body associated with the governmental oversight mini-public within 3 weeks of their submission and may not be denied for any reason except failure to provide the requisite information described in this section’s clause 2 sub clauses A and B;

3.4.5.sec=V. Following the processing of the declaration of intent for an ad-hoc mini-public, a proposal has 18 months to collect signatures of 3% of the population as determined by the census;

3.4.6.sec=VI. Proposals for ad-hoc mini-publics that collect the necessary signatures are put to a referendum;

3.4.7.sec=VII. If a proposal receives a majority in the popular vote the ad-hoc mini-public is created with organizational support from the Government Oversight standing mini-public and the executive body specified in the proposal for the ad hoc mini-public;

3.4.8.0.sec=VIII. Ad-hoc mini-publics with durations longer than three years must rotate members every two years:

3.4.8.1.sec=A. For ad-hoc mini-publics with rotating members, the first class of members shall be divided through stratified sampling as described in Article 3 into a group with one year terms and a group with two year terms,

3.4.8.2.sec=B. After one year, the members with a one-year term are replaced by stratified sampling, C. Each subsequent year, a new class replaces the outgoing members until the duration of the mini-public has elapsed;

3.4.9.0.sec=IX. Members of ad-hoc mini-publics may request additional time if a majority of the group agrees so

3.4.9.1.sec=A. Additional time is granted through a referendum;

3.4.10.sec=X. Citizens may initiate popular initiatives to extend the time of ad-hoc mini-publics or to convert an ad-hoc mini-public to a standing mini-public through the same popular initiative process as was used to create the ad-hoc mini-public;

3.4.11.sec=XI. All guidelines and rules which apply to standing mini-publics also apply to ad-hoc mini-publics.

3.5.Ti=Article 5: Popular Initiatives and Referendums

3.5.1.sec=I. Citizens and organized groups reserve the right to bring forth popular initiatives and referendums;

3.5.2.sec=II. Popular initiatives shall be used to create new ad-hoc mini-publics or to directly pass pieces of legislation. In order to put a popular initiative up to a national vote, the individual or organized group of interest must collect signatures in favor of the initiative from 3% of the broader populace. This threshold must be met within eighteen months of announcing the intent to propose the popular initiative. If this threshold is not met within the allotted time frame, the popular initiative will not be presented to the public for a vote. Popular initiatives need a simple majority in favor in order to pass;

3.5.3.sec=III. Referendums shall be used to veto legislation passed by the Central Chamber. In order to put a referendum up to a national vote, the individual or organized group of interest must collect signatures in favor of the referendum from 1% of the broader populace. This threshold must be met within 100 days of announcing the intent to propose the referendum. If this threshold is not met within the allotted time frame, the referendum will not be presented to the public for a vote, and the legislation passed by the Central Chamber will stand. Referendums need a simple majority in favor in order to pass;

3.5.4.sec=IV. All petitions for popular initiatives and referendums that meet these aforementioned thresholds shall be made available in public spaces for citizens to read and sign.

3.6.Ti=Article 6: The Conduct of Mini-Publics and Role of Experts

3.6.1.sec=I. The Chamber on Governmental Oversight shall be tasked with creating the necessary rules and regulations which will ensure that all mini publics remain sufficiently inclusive, collaborative, and deliberative, without domination from particular individuals or groups;

3.6.2.sec=II. Experts ought to serve in advisory roles in the deliberative mini-publics. Their presence consists solely in presenting factual information and answering substantive questions about their relevant subject areas. The members of the mini-publics shall determine who is considered an expert and which experts ought to be called to present information to the body. In order to call an expert forward, 1⁄3 of the body must approve;

3.6.3.sec=III. Other non-expert groups shall also be permitted to testify in front of the mini-publics and advocate for their interests. In order to call non-expert interested parties forward, 1⁄3 of the body must approve. These groups shall be clearly distinguishable from experts.

3.6.4.sec=IV. All mini-publics must have an open line for feedback that the members have a responsibility to continually read and consider in their deliberations.


4.Ti=Section 4. The Judiciary

4.1.Ti=Article 1: Judicial Structure

4.1.1.0.sec=I. The Judiciary shall consist of three main court systems:

4.1.1.1.sec=A. District Courts,

4.1.1.2.sec=B. Appeals Courts,

4.1.1.3.sec=C. The Principal Court;

4.1.1.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s3]

4.1.2.0.sec=II. To apply to serve as a judge on a District Court, a candidate must meet the following criteria:

4.1.2.1.sec=A. Possesses a law degree and has practiced law for at least five years,

4.1.2.2.sec=B. Has done verifiable work relating to community service and/or social justice,

4.1.2.3.sec=C. Has received two written endorsements from accredited colleagues or mentors;

4.1.2.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s3]

4.1.3.0.sec=III. To apply to serve as a justice on an Appeals Court, a candidate must meet the same baseline criteria for that of a District judge plus the following additional requirements:

4.1.3.1.sec=A. Has practiced law or worked in a legal-adjacent profession for at least eight years,

4.1.3.2.sec=B. Or has served on a District Court for at least three years;

4.1.3.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s2]

4.1.4.0.sec=IV. Selection of District and Appeals Court Judges:

4.1.4.1.sec=A. Applications for District and Appeals Court Judges will be accepted or rejected on the basis of sortition,

4.1.4.2.sec=B. Candidates will be randomly selected, with stratified sampling as outlined in Section 1, Article 3, as well as through taking legal background into consideration (judges should come from diverse fields within the law profession),

4.1.4.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s2]

4.1.5.0.sec=V. Term Limits

4.1.5.1.sec=A. Once appointed, judges on District Courts may serve for a maximum of six years in a row,

4.1.5.2.sec=B. Judges on Appeals Courts may serve for a maximum of ten years in a row,

4.1.5.3.sec=C. Judges may re-apply to serve on a different court after a 5 year hiatus from federal service.

4.1.5.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s3]

4.1.=[G/Z/ol-II/s5]

4.2.Ti=Article 2: The Principal Court

4.2.1.sec=I. The Principal Court justices shall be chosen from self-selected Appeals Court judges by sortition.

4.2.2.sec=II. The Principal Court shall be composed of fifteen justices. Justices shall have ten year terms. The first year of an incoming cohort of justices is to overlap with the final year of the leaving cohort of justices. For the first year of their term, the incoming justices will not exercise judicial power but will shadow their predecessors;

4.2.3.sec=III. The Principal Court shall hear cases pertaining to constitutional law and accepted appeals from lower courts;

4.2.4.0.sec=IV. The Principal Court shall possess the power to overturn statutory law with a two-thirds majority. Any court may call into question the constitutionality of a federal policy, proposal, or action. However, these claims must be brought to the Principal Court to reach a final ruling;

4.2.4.1.sec=A. Citizens retain the right to bring any law they find to be unconstitutional to a court 

4.2.4.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s1]

4.2.5.sec=V. Principal Court justices shall release the majority and dissenting as well as any concurring opinions to the public.

4.2.=[G/Z/ol-II/s5]

4.3.Ti=Article 3: Recall

4.3.1.0.sec=I. Power of Recall

4.3.1.1.sec=A. Citizens may also overturn the rulings of the Principal Court or call the constitutionality of a federal policy, proposal, or action into question;

4.3.1.2.0.sec=B. To call recall a Principal Court decision or federal policy, proposal, or action, citizens must:

4.3.1.2.1.sec=1. File to hold a referendum within their district. If citizens gain the consent of 10% of the voting-age population within their district, the question must be brought to a vote within the district,

4.3.1.2.2.sec=2. For the motion to pass, a 60% majority must vote in favor of it. If the district passes the motion, the question will be put to the geographic area encompassing the district’s Appeals Court region. If this referendum passes again with a 60% majority, the question is brought to the national level,

4.3.1.2.3.sec=3. If the referendum passes with a 60% majority on the national level, the Principal Court decision or Federal policy/proposal/action is ruled void and no longer takes hold.

4.3.1.2.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

4.3.1.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s2]

4.3.=[G/Z/ol-II/s1]

4.4.Ti=Article 4: A Civil Law System

4.4.1.sec=I. The legal system shall follow a civil law system of codified legal principles;

4.4.2.0.sec=II. Structure of the Court

4.4.2.1.sec=A. Judges’ roles are to establish the facts of the case,

4.4.2.2.sec=B. Judges’ facilitate the discussion of the case,

4.4.2.3.sec=C. Depending on the level of the court, either the judge or jury will provide a verdict,

4.4.2.4.sec=D. In the case that the defendant is found guilty, the judge will provide the appropriate punishment based on relevant legal code;

4.4.2.=[G/Z/ol-II/s4]

4.4.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s2]

4.=[G/Z/ol/4]

5.Ti=Section 5: The Executive Branch

5.1.Ti=Article 1: The Executive Branch

5.1.sec=The power of the executive branch is vested in the Issue-Based Executive Bodies and the Integrative Body.

5.2.Ti=Article 2: Issue-Based Executive Bodies

5.2.1.0.sec=I. There shall be an Executive Body for each standing mini-public:

5.2.1.1.sec=A. Ad-hoc mini-publics shall designate an existing Executive Body to implement their legislation,

5.2.1.2.sec=B. Any mini-public may organize a new Executive Body through legislation;

5.2.1.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s2]

5.2.=[G/Z/ol-II/s1]

5.2.2.sec=II. The Issue-Based Executive Bodies are responsible for executing the laws that the legislature issues and enacts corresponding to their specific area;

5.2.3.sec=III. Each Issue-Based Executive Body will be composed of 11 members, who shall be selected and approved by the legislative body to participate. The selected members will need to comply with the requirements specified in article 3 of the present section;

5.2.4.sec=IV. Each member will serve 33 month terms, staggered such that the end of each member’s term is 3 months apart

5.2.5.0.sec=V. The Issue-Based Executive Bodies shall have the following powers:

5.2.5.1.sec=A. Implement programs as specified by the legislature,

5.2.5.2.sec=B. Investigate the efficacy of programs as specified by the legislature,

5.2.5.3.sec=C. Conduct the corresponding administrative matters that are required for the State to function,

5.2.5.4.sec=D. Conduct the law enforcement mechanisms and measures that the legislature specifies,

5.2.5.5.sec=E. Establish the rest of the executive body required to complete its tasks in accordance with a democratic workplace,

5.2.5.6.sec=F. Propose the enacting of legislation and programs to the legislative branch.

5.2.5.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s6]

5.2.=[G/Z/ol-II/s5]

5.3.Ti=Article 3: The Integrative Body

5.3.1.sec=I. There shall be an Integrative Executive Body composed of members selected by means of sampling 3 members from each issue-based executive body. Sampling will occur using methods as outlined in Section 1, Article 3;

5.3.2.sec=II. The Integrative Executive Body is tasked with implementing laws deemed sufficiently intersectional by the central legislative body;

5.3.3.sec=III. The Integrative Executive Body may enact interim responses to crises;

5.3.4.sec=IV. The Integrative Executive Body may only use its crisis powers when given approval to do so by the central legislative body;

5.3.5.sec=V. The Central Legislative Chamber may declare a crisis at any moment in time;

5.3.6.0.sec=VI. The Integrative Executive Body may request specific crisis powers which prompts a hearing of the Central Chamber to determine within six hours whether a crisis can be declared:

5.3.6.1.sec=A. If a crisis is declared, the Central Chamber must reapprove the crisis in the five to seven days following the initial approval,

5.3.6.2.sec=B. If a state of crisis is declared but not reapproved, all policies enacted under the crisis designation are nullified unless otherwise specified by the Central Chamber;

5.3.6.3.sec=C. The Central Chamber must specify an expiration date for the exercise of crisis powers which they may extend or shorten at any time

5.3.6.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s3]

5.3.7.sec=VII. All policies enacted under a crisis designation expire after two months unless the Central Chamber approves them;

5.3.8.sec=VIII. The Integrative Executive Body is responsible for determining the organizational structure of its department in accordance with a democratic workplace.

5.3.=[G/Z/ol-II/s8]

5.4.Ti=Article 4: Selection Criteria

5.4.1.sec=I. Each legislative mini-public shall determine by majority rule the membership of its own executive body;

5.4.2.0.sec=II. Mini-publics may nominate anyone they wish to serve on an Executive Body so long as they comply with the following qualifications:

5.4.2.1.sec=A. To be a citizen that has lived on Mars for at least 10 years,

5.4.2.2.sec=B. To be at least 25 years old;

5.4.2.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s2]

5.4.3.sec=III. All nominations for Executive Bodies are subject to review by the Government Oversight mini-public along the dimensions outlined in Section 1, Article 3, as well as personal background;

5.4.=[G/Z/ol-II/s3]

5.5.Ti=Article 5: Legislative Override Process and Recall, Transparency

5.5.1.0.sec=I. The decisions of the executive branch may be overruled or overridden in two ways:

5.5.1.1.sec=A. Contradictory laws passed by the legislative branch or a citizens’ initiative,

5.5.1.2.sec=B. Through a recall process which may be initiated by the legislative branch or the public;

5.5.1.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s2]

5.5.2.sec=II. If a law is passed that contradicts the decisions of the executive branch, the executive branch must follow the new law;

5.5.3.0.sec=III. Citizens may create a popular initiative by collecting the signatures of 3% of the population in opposition to an executive branch decision within 18 months of the processing of a declaration of intent to create such a citizens’ override:

5.5.3.1.sec=A. Popular initiatives that receive the signatures of 3% of the population will go to a national vote and will result in the override of an executive branch decision if the vote retains support from a majority of the citizens,

5.5.3.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s1]

5.5.4.0.sec=IV. The public may call for a recall hearing of a staff member of the executive body by getting signatures of 3% of the population within 18 months of the processed declaration of intent, followed by a majority vote of the public, the mini-public responsible for selecting members of the executive body may also initiate a recall hearing by majority vote:

5.5.4.1.sec=A. The hearing shall by conducted before the corresponding mini-public to determine if the executive branch member went beyond his legislatively granted duties,

5.5.4.2.sec=B. By a 60% vote of the mini-public if the hearing was initiated by the legislature or a 60% popular vote if the hearing was initiated by popular referendum;

5.5.4.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s2]

5.5.5.sec=V. All Executive Body meetings are available for public viewing, including electronic viewing;

5.5.6.sec=VI. Executive Bodies must publish a report on their workings each month.

5.5.=[G/Z/ol-II/s6]

5.=[G/Z/ol/5]

6.Ti=Section 6: Amendments

6.1.Ti=Article 1: Non-Amendable Articles

6.1.1.sec=I. Section 1 (Rights), Articles 1 and 2 cannot be amended.

6.1.2.sec=II. Section 6 (Amendments), Articles 1 and 2 cannot be amended.

6.1.=[G/Z/ol-II/s2]

6.2.Ti=Article 2: 30 Year Review of the Constitution

6.2.1.sec=I. Every 30th year the Constitution of Mars will be reviewed;

6.2.2.sec=II. The review takes place in a special “30 year mini-public”;

6.2.3.sec=III. The “30 year mini-public” shall be made of 250 members, randomly selected with a stratified sample (as detailed in Section 1, Article 3) overseen by the Governmental Oversight mini-public;

6.2.4.0.sec=IV. The process of the “30 year mini-public” will begin 28 years after the last iteration of this type of constitutional review. It will follow this timeline:

6.2.4.1.sec=A. Early in the 28th year, the process of selection for the mini-public will be released to the public, who can provide feedback on the criteria considered;

6.2.4.2.sec=B. Early in the 29th year, the citizens who will be in this mini-public shall be selected.

6.2.4.3.sec=C. These citizens’ names shall be available to the public.

6.2.4.4.sec=D. After their names are revealed, these citizens shall undergo extensive legal training to understand Constitutional Law. Their interactions with any interest groups shall be reported to and monitored by the Governmental Oversight body;

6.2.4.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s4]

6.2.5.sec=V. The purpose of this mini-public is to propose constitutional amendments that the public shall decide on;

6.2.6.sec=VI. The ordinary mini-publics can inform and give advice to this “30 year mini-public”;

6.2.7.sec=VII. The proposed constitutional amendment(s) shall be backed by 50% of the votes in the “30 year mini-public”;

6.2.8.sec=VIII. Before an amendment can be brought to the public, an amendment must be reviewed by legal experts to ensure that it is not contradictory with the limited scope of Amendments;

6.2.9.sec=IX. The public will vote on constitutional amendment(s) via referendum. For an amendment to be passed, it must receive 60% of the votes

6.2.=[G/Z/ol-II/s9]

6.3.Ti=Article 3: Citizens’ Initiatives (Direct Wording)

6.3.1.sec=I. Citizens shall have the right to create an initiative for a new amendment anytime;

6.3.2.sec=II. Any citizen may create a petition with a specific wording for an amendment. To receive consideration, the petition must garner 5% of the population’s signatures. The process of gathering signatures must be reviewed and approved by the Governmental Oversight mini-public;

6.3.3.sec=III. Before an amendment can be brought to the public for referendum, it must be reviewed by legal experts to ensure that it is not contradictory with the limited scope of Amendments;

6.3.4.sec=IV. Citizens shall have six months to consider the proposal;

6.3.5.sec=V. Citizens will vote on the amendment proposals in a national referendum. For an amendment proposal to be passed, it must receive 60% of the public vote. This process shall be reviewed by the Governmental Oversight mini-public.

6.3.=[G/Z/ol-II/s5]

6.4.Ti=Article 4: Citizens’ Initiative (Subject Area)

6.4.1.sec=I. Citizens shall have the right to create an initiative for a new amendment anytime;

6.4.2.sec=II. Any citizen may create a petition proposing a new amendment in a certain subject area. To receive consideration, the petition must garner 5% of the population’s signatures. The process of gathering signatures must be reviewed and approved by the Governmental Oversight mini-public;

6.4.3.sec=III. Once a petition has passed the threshold of 5%, it shall spur the creation of an ad-hoc mini public dedicated to drafting amendment(s) based on the petition’s subject area;

6.4.4.sec=IV. The ad-hoc mini public shall be made of 250 members, randomly selected with a stratified sample (as detailed in Section 1, Article 3) overseen by the Governmental Oversight mini-public;

6.4.5.sec=V. The ad-hoc mini public will have a year to create amendment proposals. Each amendment proposal must be related to the topics in the citizens’ petition (and if the amendment’s relation to the citizens’ petition is not clear, it must be explained);

6.4.6.0.sec=VI. Before an amendment proposal is presented to the public via a national referendum, two things must happen:

6.4.6.1.sec=A. The ad-hoc mini-public must vote on the proposal. Any proposal which receives a 50% vote within the mini-public may be brought to referendum;

6.4.6.2.sec=B. The amendment must be reviewed by legal experts to ensure that it is not contradictory with the limited scope of Amendments;

6.4.6.=[G/Z/ol-AA/s2]

6.4.7.sec=VII. This system allows for multiple related amendment proposals, which must all be voted on during the same time period;

6.4.8.sec=VIII. Once amendment proposals are brought to the public, the ad-hoc mini-public shall release neutral, fact-based information about the different proposals;

6.4.9.sec=IX. Citizens shall have six months to consider the proposals prior to the vote;

6.4.10.sec=X. Citizens will vote on the amendment proposals in a national referendum. For an amendment proposal to be passed, it must receive a 60% of the public vote. This process shall be reviewed by the Governmental Oversight mini-public.

6.4.=[G/Z/ol-II/s10]

6.=[G/Z/ol/4]


=[G/Z/ol/6]

 MARTIAN SOVEREIGNTY
Accompanying Documents:
While the preamble primarily serves to introduce the document and its major themes, there is one line that carries some added significance. We say “Without influence or interference from Earth.” By this line, we make it the official policy that Earth governments may not interfere with the affairs of Mars nor may they attempt to colonize the planet. This line serves as a form of a Martian Monroe Doctrine. In early American history, the Monroe Doctrine was the central tenet of American foreign policy that America would not permit any European influence in the Western Hemisphere, especially interference with a new republic emerging from colonialism.1 This was born out of an American fear that old world European monarchism would corrupt the revolutionary republican experiments around the world. On Mars, we feel that we are in a similar situation. Earth is the old world, with its electoral oligopolies, corporate dominance, and authoritarian regimes. Mars is the new world and we are shedding the constraints of Earth to launch a new era of deliberative open democracy. We, like the early Americans, fear that the old structures of power will perceive us as a threat, especially if our experiments seem promising and intriguing to those on Earth. We also worry that powerful governments on Earth will attempt to colonize Mars. In order to take a firm stance against these threats and to protect our open and deliberative experiment, we put this statement in the preamble to enshrine this as the guiding star of Martian foreign policy.
BASIC RIGHTS
Believing that all people, including inhabitants of an alien planet, deserve more than just inalienable rights, the Martian Constitution seeks not to create a government that citizens are merely protected against but a government that provides for its citizens and its citizens contribute to in turn. The Martian Bill of Rights thus begins by affirming the dignity of life and inalienable rights of its citizens while critically pursuing higher ideals, in creating a radically democratic foundation for government.
First, it is worth elucidating the reasons for our format and our choices of language. Rights and freedoms are for all. Therefore, the language of the Bill of Rights should be accessible to all. In writing the first section of the Martian Constitution, we sought to delineate rights and freedoms as succinctly as possible for purposes of inclusivity while still emphatically supporting progressive ideals. More recently conceived Constitutions, including the Icelandic and South African Constitutions, reflected the plain intelligibility of language desired for our Constitution and served as useful models.
Turning to discussing Article 1, the first statement was modified from Article 65 of the Icelandic Constitution which stated “Everyone shall be equal before the law and enjoy human rights irrespective of sex, religion, opinion, national origin, race, colour, property, birth or other status.”2 Finding sexuality and ability to be lacking protection, colour to be a problematic term and inclusive within race, and property to be a superfluous protection, we adjusted the statement accordingly. Another important addition is protections for individuals for their “lack of religion”; this is included throughout the remainder of the Constitution and functions to decentralize religion from public life and government. Finally, we
1 “Monroe Doctrine (1823),” Our Documents - Monroe Doctrine (1823), accessed May 12, 2021, https://www.ourdocuments.gov/doc.php?flash=false&doc=23.
2 Constitution of the Republic of Iceland [Iceland], 17 June 1944, available at: https://www.refworld.org/docid/3ae6b5627.html [accessed 11 May 2021]
 
 considered adding age to the Icelandic Constitution, but the group concluded that children understandably should not have completely full rights until they become adults (alcohol, living independently, etc.) and thus should not be included.
The second sentence of Article 1 was taken directly from the South African Constitution and serves as a binding statement for the Bill of Rights and is important for avoiding the messy American Fourteenth Amendment incorporation of rights in the federal system.3
Article 2 delineates the rights that are owed to all individuals, and participation rights that are granted to all citizens. Though constitutionally mandating specific resolutions was tempting, we ultimately opted for longevity while ensuring that certain rights were indisputable. The structure of the rights section loosely adheres to Maslow’s hierarchy, first providing necessities before affording intellectual freedoms. Importantly, at the level of physiological needs, the Constitution provides for universal healthcare, as suggested from Article 2 Right 3. The choice to add exclusions to the right to speak freely was the most controversial decision made in Article 2. In a five-to-four vote, the group chose to add exclusions to the right to speak freely based on concerns regarding hate speech. Those opposed to adding exceptions were concerned about the “slippery slope” that could result in capricious restrictions, but, basing the restrictions on the precise language of the South African Constitution-- which is often criticized for insufficiently limiting particular speech-- ameliorated some apprehension.
Rights 9 and 10 were subject to significant discussion at our final meetings. The original wording of Right 9 was as follows: “Right to pursue an education”. However, upon reconsideration, we found this phrase to be nebulous-- the underlying purpose of the amendment was to guarantee a right to education for all citizens but, as it stood, there was no explicit commitment to education. The previous wording of “pursue” intended to suggest that varying educational levels may be attained. For this reason, despite contemplating the phrase “Right to pursue an equal education,” we settled upon more ambiguous language that did not implicitly mandate a particular level of education. Right 10, conversely, was modified to include “pursue” to suggest that employment is not guaranteed without qualifications. The requirement for legality was also added after it was suggested that narcotics dealing could qualify as a profession.
In a subsection of Article 2, the rights all citizens have the ability to exercise are articulated. The legislative component of the Martian constitution is predicated on the use of mini-publics as the fundamental deliberative and decision-making body. In addition to standing mini-publics concerned with ever-present issues, the legislative component of the constitution allows for ad-hoc mini-publics. Both of these bodies are then sampled to produce the Central Chamber. Thus, citizens of Mars are bestowed the right to eligibility for selection to participate in standing mini-publics, ad-hoc mini-publics, and the Central Chamber if already a participant in the mini-public system. Moreover, citizens are empowered to participate in the creation and management of ad-hoc mini-publics. Citizens have the right to trigger popular initiatives to decide whether an ad-hoc mini-public should exist, extend the duration of an ad-hoc mini-public, and transition an ad-hoc mini-public into a standing mini-public. Popular initiatives may also be proposed to directly pass legislation while referendums may be proposed to veto passed legislation. Once these popular initiatives and referendums have met their appropriate signature thresholds, citizens have the right to vote on them.
In Article 4 we laid out rights allotted to those accused of and potentially convicted of crimes. Focused on ensuring humane, equitable treatment, we wrote a list of positive rights that included being
3 Constitution of the Republic of South Africa [South Africa], 10 December 1996, available at: https://www.refworld.org/docid/3ae6b5de4.html [accessed 11 May 2021]
 
 considered innocent until proven guilty, the right to a defense counsel, a right to due process, a right to avoid self-incrimination, and more. The hope is that with the positive rights, we’ve effectively prevented any possible cases for the accused to be exploited and abused by the criminal system. Further protections included requiring diverse juries to prevent any implicit biases from persuading a jury’s decision in a trial. We also included what we viewed to be a more equitable system of bail through the form of community service hours rather than paid bail. This was an effort to prevent cases of the rich buying their freedom while those from lower socio-economic classes risked placing themselves in debt in order to be let out on bail. Looking at the United State’s system of bail and the ways it can inadvertently criminalize poverty4 we wanted to ensure an opportunity of bail that was devoid of financial burden and found that community service may be a better option. Finally, our more humanitarian view on the criminal system included sections to prevent torture and execution, providing the right to rehabilititaiton prior to reintegration, and preserving the rights provided in Article 2 to non-violent offenders. Such actions are necessary in reducing the amount of trauma incurred from those incriminated, and to reduce the recidivism rate by creating better opportunities for them to engage with and become productive members of society.
ANIMAL RIGHTS
All animals on Mars are likely to be brought from Earth since right now, there are no registered wildlife forms on the new planet. As such, all animals living in Mars society will have been initially brought to the planet by settlers. Therefore, we thought it was pertinent to create a baseline criteria for how such animals would be selected to be brought to Mars. The committee for Mars Logistical Life Planners was designed to reflect principles of inclusion and effective participation, as outlined by political theorist Robert Dahl in Democracy and Its Critics.5 We allow for small cohort subgroups so as to maximize individual agency within each setting. We further control for social identification factors so that we can allow for inclusive, diverse perspectives within the conversation.
We believe that Martian treatment of animals should fall in line with principles of morality. While animals may not be on the same levels as humans, they do deserve basic rights. We derive the criteria for basic animal rights from the Kantian view that animals may not be equal to humans, but they are still worthy of our moral concern.6 We therefore have agreed that we should not cause needless suffering to animals, which we would do because there are other (better) food sources available to us. (Empirical data has shown that plant-based farming is less resource-intensive than animal-based farming.7) Therefore, all citizens on the planet of Mars will commit to pursuing only plant-driven agriculture. This follows under the purpose of preventing “needless suffering” caused to animals. Agricultural workers may use animals to help cultivate the land, but the conditions under which they work must ensure that every action is taken to prevent harm from coming to them. Farmers should regulate the frequency and extent to which they make use of animal labor in order to promote sustainable practices; animals should not be overworked.
4 Hunter, Lea. “What You Need To Know About Ending Cash Bail.” Center for American Progress, 16 Mar. 2020, www.americanprogress.org/issues/criminal-justice/reports/2020/03/16/481543/ending-cash-bail/#:~:text=In%20effe ct%2C%20the%20cash%20bail,color%20and%20those%20experiencing%20poverty.
5 Robert A. Dahl. Democracy and Its Critics. Yale University Press, 1989.
6 Metaphysics Research Lab, Center for the Study of Language and Information (CSLI), Stanford University, "The Moral Status of Animals," Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, last modified August 23, 2017, accessed May 8, 2021, https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/moral-animal/index.html.
7 World Resources Institute, "Animal-based Foods are More Resource-Intensive than Plant-Based Foods," World Resources Institute, last modified April 20, 2016, accessed May 8, 2021, https://www.wri.org/data/animal-based-foods-are-more-resource-intensive-plant-based-foods.
 
 Farmers should also look into other plant or labor based practices to use alongside this strategy. Currently, a large factor of meat-eating practices are derived from cultural significance. On Mars, we are excited to have the opportunity to create a new culture within our new society. Through excluding the practice of farming livestock, we will be able to promote sustainability and morality.
NATURE RIGHTS
Inspired by the Icelandic constitutional proposal as well as constitutions like Bolivia, which have already written rights for nature, we wanted to add a section for natural rights. We researched sources such as GARN, or the Global Alliance for the Rights of Nature. Using these resources, we came up with our own rights of nature. We decided to keep the section on nature rights short, simply establishing the definition of nature and its inherent value. We also asserted that nature has the right to exist. This right is intentionally vague: we envisioned that the court system would flesh out how the right to exist plays into larger policy, since it can be applied to various special cases. Other constitutions, such as the Bolivian Constitution, provide a more clear set of guidelines, such as the right “to not be affected by mega-infrastructure and development projects that affect the balance of ecosystems and the local inhabitant communities.”8 We decided to keep our rights more vague, because we did not know what forms of development would occur on Mars. However, we ensured that nature’s rights should be a guiding principle in all policy, rather than just the economy.
DIGITAL RIGHTS
The society that we are forming will be entirely forged in the digital age. As a result, we must ensure that the digital sphere is just as liberal as the social sphere that we created with the rest of our rights. This involves both mirroring what societies have adopted on Earth and going beyond, taking advantage of the fact that we are starting society from scratch on Mars. As technology advances on Earth, the digital sphere is being used more and more as a tool of the powerful against the powerless. Companies like Facebook are collecting personal data, with the only form of consent being the inadequate code of conduct. As Yuval Noah Harari put it about free online services, “We aren’t their customers—we are their product.”9 On earth, we fear that this trend will be impossible to buck. Services like Google, Facebook, and Youtube are so ubiquitous that preventing them from collecting data and putting these services behind a paywall is not possible; however, on Mars it is not too late. We hope that a new digital sphere that does not infringe on people’s privacy will emerge and with this in mind, we set out a few guidelines so that digital technology can be the truly democratizing force it has the potential to be.
The biggest Earthly inspiration for the digital rights section was the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). From this act, we borrowed three provisions that are reflected in clauses II through IV of the Section 1 Article 5 on digital rights. The GDPR requires pseudonymization, a process by which personal data is altered so that it is no longer traceable back to its subject.10 This requirement for anonymity is reflected in clause II, the “right to digital anonymity.” We hope that even
8 The Guardian, “Bolivia enshrines natural world's rights with equal status for Mother Earth.” last modified April, 2011, accessed May 13, 2021.
9 Yuval Noah Harari, “Why Technology Favors Tyranny,” The Atlantic (Atlantic Media Company, September 13, 2018), https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2018/10/yuval-noah-harari-technology-tyranny/568330/.
10 Matt Wes, “Looking to Comply with GDPR? Here's a Primer on Anonymization and Pseudonymization,” Looking to comply with GDPR? Here's a primer on anonymization and pseudonymization (International Association of Privacy Professionals, May 6, 2020), https://iapp.org/news/a/looking-to-comply-with-gdpr-heres-a-primer-on-anonymization-and-pseudonymization/.
 
 when data is collected, this will ensure that it cannot be used against an individual. The GDPR also guarantees transparency, which we reflected in clause III, so that when data is collected people know to whom it is being sold and when to help them make informed decisions about their data.11 Finally, we borrowed the Right to be Forgotten, which means that people have the right to request their removal from digital databases, allowing people to change their minds if they ever decide that they are no longer comfortable with a certain element of data being collected.12 The GDPR includes this in a weak form, but we intend it to be implemented to the fullest possible extent, allowing people to request the deletion of any data. The final of our more minor digital rights is clause V, which ensures due process when the government plans to collect digital data and was drafted in response to our disapproval of the USA-Patriot Act.
The final two rights in this section are the most revolutionary of the six and are the centerpieces of what we hope is a democratic internet. First, we grant people ownership of their data. This would radically change the internet landscape, preventing companies like Facebook and Google from profiting almost solely by infringing upon individual privacy. We believe that complete ownership, the kind that prevents data giants from ever forming in the first place, is not possible given the path that Earthly technology has followed. Mars, on the other hand, is a new society without Earth’s digital history. In order to ensure that everyone has access to the internet, we also guarantee access to a net-neutral internet in clause VI. This is especially important with personal ownership of data as technology companies may add a paywall or require users to sell their individual data to the companies for the service, and we did not want to have any equity concerns because of these processes. We also guaranteed net-neutrality so that there would be no discrepancies between people based on how they accessed the internet. People are still allowed to sell personal data if they so wish under these regulations, but we included the four more minor digital rights described above to ensure that if they do so it is not overly detrimental and they are able to make an informed decision.
THE LEGISLATURE
Article 1: Single-Issue Mini-Publics
When people presented the legislature, we had two competing visions for what the legislature should be. On the one hand, some preferred focusing on a single unicameral legislature that was responsible for all legislation, while others proposed a decentralized group of legislative bodies that centered on one issue. Those favoring the single body believed that government policy would be more organized and there would be fewer veto points, resulting in more overall action, but we ultimately decided to use an issue-based approach for three reasons: issue-based legislators would be more knowledgeable on the issues that they are legislating, the government could address more than one issue at a time, and it would create more opportunities for participation as a legislator or a citizen or expert contributor to the legislative process.
On the first issue, we worried that a citizen legislature that would be in charge of all issues would not learn the issues as deeply as those in more focused legislatures. It is telling that most modern elected legislators are mostly lawyers, who have a cursory knowledge of all policies through their study of law as
11 “Article 30,” REGULATION (EU) 2016/679 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL, accessed May 12, 2021, https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/HTML/?uri=CELEX%3A32016R0679&from=EN#d1e3265-1-1. 12 “Everything You Need to Know about the ‘Right to Be Forgotten,’” GDPR.eu, April 24, 2020, https://gdpr.eu/right-to-be-forgotten/.
 
 opposed to experts, who would only have knowledge on a specific issue. In replacing these elite officials with citizen officials, we did not want to replicate this shallow knowledge of issues. If citizens were in a large all-purpose legislature, they would have to learn from experts on every issue and they simply would not have time to discuss the details of every single one. On the other hand, citizens in a more narrowly focused mini-public would be able to learn all of the intricacies so that they could make the most informed decisions and understand how these details would affect them and those like them. The members of the Citizens’ Convention for Climate became very knowledgeable about reducing greenhouse gas emissions, but they would not have been so if they also had to learn everything about marginal tax rates, labor policies, France’s foreign entanglements, and race relations. Those issues often came up in discussion of the environment, but their knowledge base was environmental policy and if they also had to set all policies on the other issues they simply would have been overwhelmed, even with more time. Therefore, we created single-issue mini-publics to capture the depth of knowledge required for legislating and multiple-mini publics to capture the breadth of issues that legislatures must address.
Our second reason for creating single-issue bodies is that it would allow the government to address more major issues at once. In an all-purpose legislature, especially one of mini-publics in constant consultation with experts, it is challenging to pass major legislation on more than one major issue at once. The energy to focus on more than one issue at once and the time to adequately deliberate and consult with experts would simply not be there. For a society that will inevitably have multiple major issues at a time as all societies do, this would pose a major problem. On the other hand, decentralizing the process allows for each mini-public to address their own issues in tandem which would increase the frequency of landmark legislation.
Finally, the single-issue mini-publics will create more opportunities for participation and will be more representative. By their very nature, the single-issue mini-publics will select more members to participate because there will be multiple legislative mini-publics rather than just one. They will also create more opportunities for citizens who were not selected to participate. Citizen legislators only have so much time in the day to work on legislation, learn from experts, and read citizen feedback. If there is only one group of legislators who are able to read citizen feedback, they will read and address a lower proportion of this feedback than if there was a larger contingent of citizen legislators as in our system. Additionally, a decentralized process could encourage some people to submit feedback on more than one issue. Furthermore, we believe that the issue based bodies will be more representative of the diversity on Mars than a single-issue body would. As Terrill Bouricius points out in his chapter of Legislature by Lot, an all-purpose chamber will inevitably split into committees in order to address all of the issues that a legislature must address.13 Because these committees will be smaller than the all-purpose body, it is likely that they will be less representative of the country’s diversity. In our system, on the other hand, we conduct quota sampling on all of our large mini-publics ensuring that they will represent as many levels of diversity within Mars as possible.
After deciding to create a network of issue-based mini-publics, we had to decide the number of mini-publics and what they would cover. After beginning with a proposal for 15 issue-based mini-publics, we pared that list down to six both to not overwhelm the citizens of Mars and to accommodate those who may have still favored an all-purpose chamber. To cover the important elements of public policy on Earth, we created a mini-public on foreign policy and Earth relations, social policy and welfare, environmental policy, economic policy, and civil rights. In the description of each of these mini-publics we included
13 John Gastil et al., “Why Hybrid Bicameralism Is Not Right for Sortition,” in Legislature by Lot: Transformative Designs for Deliberative Governance (London: Verso Books, 2019), 324-325.
 
 possible legislative realms that they could cover, but emphasized that these were flexible so that they could adapt to new problems without a constitutional amendment. The sixth mini-public is in charge of government oversight. It oversees the sortiton process, ensures that the mini-publics are deliberative and not overtaken by experts, tries to prevent judicial and executive overreach, and ensures that both branches are sufficiently diverse both in background and demographics.
Article 2: Central Chamber
We created the Central Chamber to serve as an intermediary between the different legislative bodies. Many policies naturally span different realms, and we were concerned that one legislative body might pass a policy that would not be consistent with another body. In the case of contradiction, which body would win out? To provide a mechanism for discourse, we decided to create the Central Chamber. Beyond checking for inconsistencies, the Central Chamber also serves as a check on the policy power of the legislative mini-publics. While each mini-public will be democratically representative, it is possible that other bodies may have different visions for government strategy. The Central Chamber will thus serve as a place to debate and determine the government’s overall “grand strategy.”
When designing the Central Chamber, we had a few main questions to consider. First, who should be in it? We decided that instead of selecting new members outside of the government, we should have a fraction of each permanent mini-public serve in the Central Chamber. This would ensure that each mini-public would have representation in the Central Chamber, and could report on the happenings of the Central Chamber back to their bodies. We decided to not include the temporary ad-hoc mini-publics, because this would constantly change the size of the Central chamber as mini-publics were created and dissolved. Constantly changing numbers would make voting and debating difficult. While these temporary mini-publics will not receive formal representation, their members can appear to present on policies. Furthermore, if the temporary mini-publics became permanent, they would gain an institutional voice. Next, we wondered how to select those in it. We considered self-nomination or a vote within each mini-public. We thought that this would lead to the most charismatic or persuasive leaders, since each chamber would want to amplify their voice. But these leaders would not necessarily be the best at bargaining, or compromise. We thus decided to select members from each mini-public via sorition. Lastly, we wondered who should control the budget. We decided that the Central chamber would control the budget, since it also had an idea of what policies and initiatives the government would try to undertake. It could appropriately increase or decrease the budget. We worried that if another body had control over the budget, it would use its powers to implicitly affect decisions on legislation, since it could cut funding for certain programs.
Article 3: Selection
When considering selection for the mini-publics within the legislative body, we decided that all should be randomly sampled. This idea was at the heart of our government’s structure, as we wanted the equal right to participate. When considering the equal right to participate in government, we considered what factors might discourage or outright bar participation. For example, many people would not be able to lose income during their time as legislators. We thus wrote that those participating would receive the 70th percentile of the national income. We chose this number to ensure that both low and high income households would be incentivized to participate: for some, this would be a much higher income than they were used to while for others, they would not be losing out as much on potential income. We also considered the reasons citizens might not participate. While some reasons such as personal health were

 excusable, we wanted others to be reviewed on an individual basis. We hoped that our society would promote the idea of citizenship as not just receiving from the government, but actively giving and participating in it as well. The idea of “citizenship duty” also played into conversations about potential punishment. We initially wrote that citizens would receive an unspecified punishment if they did not participate without receiving an approval to do so. In our later conversations, however, we realized that we did not want citizens to participate for fear of punishment, but to participate for the sake of being a virtuous citizen. While this idea can (and does) sound vague, we ensured that citizens would have to participate in community service if they did not participate in the mini-public. In other words, they would still have to “pay their dues” to society. We hope that by framing the language of participation around patriotism and virtue, our society will have a positive, rather than negative, perception of performing political labor.
Article 4: Ad-Hoc Mini-Publics
In our design of the legislature we encountered two problems. First, if there are a set number of issue-based mini-publics what happens when issues emerge that do not fit neatly into one of the existing mini-publics? And second, how do we have citizen participation in the legislature that includes those not selected for the legislature and allows them to be able to set the agenda while still maintaining deliberation at a level not typically seen in referenda and initiatives? The solution to both of these problems are what we call ad-hoc mini-publics, which are mini-publics that can be formed by citizens' initiative at any time on any given issue. We conceive that these mini-publics are best suited for coming up with long-term solutions to crises, to resolve unworkable polarization on an issue, or to deal with a new issue that has never been addressed by the legislature before. On Earth, issues like Climate Change would be a good thing to address with one of these mini-publics as an all-encompassing crisis that requires careful attention. Issues like gun control or racial justice would also be good because the deliberative environment of a mini-public may foster consensus on these contentious issues. Technological advancements that the standing mini-publics don’t have the time to learn due to other issues could also go to these mini-publics, where they would serve a role similar to that of the Dutch consensus conferences on technological development. They could also be used for constitutional amendments. The most analogous bodies on Earth would be the various citizens’ assemblies that have focused on one particular issue such as the British Columbia Citizens’ Assembly and the Citizens’ Convention for Climate. Both of those bodies created great policies, but the implementation by the government has been disappointing for the French Citizens' Convention while the proposals of the British Columbian assembly failed a supermajoritarian referendum. We hope that these ad-hoc mini-publics will be more influential because they are given a more official role in the government and are given the power to pass legislation themselves through the central body just like any standing issue-based mini-public would do.
Ad-hoc mini-publics can be thought of as a sort of deliberative referendum or initiative. Referendums and other popular vote processes have a number of problems: they do not have full participation, decisions are binary, there is no deliberation, and they are often just tools of the political elite to gain validation for potentially controversial policies. We hoped to create a form of participation that captured the bottom-up spirit of initiatives while addressing these concerns. Like citizens’ initiatives, Ad-hoc mini-publics begin with a petition process. They move on to a popular vote if a petition to create one receives the signatures of 3% of the population, the same threshold that we set for other initiatives. Like initiatives, they then go to a popular vote and are created if they receive a majority. We expect that

 mini-publics that go to a vote will be passed more often than initiatives because voting in favor of a mini-public is only voting that something should be addressed rather than voting for a particular policy, with which one might agree on the goal but not the method. Once passed, these mini-publics operate like any other, fostering deliberation, containing a representative sample of the country as a whole, and creating unique policies with the advice of experts. In this way, they add a deliberative component to the initiative process in what we hope will be a welcome supplement to more traditional popular vote processes.
Ad-hoc mini-publics are also the process by which new standing mini-publics are made. We believe that the six standing mini-publics we created are comprehensive, but, as society develops, the demands on the legislature will surely change. Ad-hoc mini-publics already offer a good way to address emerging issues, but if these issues become long term areas of government concern, it is important that we have a mechanism to continuously address them. With this in mind, we allow for ad-hoc mini-publics to be extended or to be elevated to the status of a standing mini-public by citizens’ initiative and vote if they feel that it is important enough to continue to address.
Article 5: Popular Initiatives and Referendums
In our initial round of deliberations regarding the legislature, we voted not to give the broader public the ability to pass or revoke legislation by means of popular initiatives or referendums. The rationale behind this was that such mass participatory means do not require any widespread deliberation in order to pass. Our group discussed quite extensively the profound importance of deliberation in fair, effective governance. As we saw it, deliberation inherently works as a liberalizing measure; it actively protects the interests of minorities by providing them with an avenue through which they can voice their concerns and be heard by other parties. We were wary that, without having a mechanism to enforce deliberation among the mass citizenry, popular initiatives or referendums that directly shape legislation could lead to the passage of laws that tyrannize vulnerable minority populations without recourse. For instance, the dangers of mass participation without any deliberative component can be seen quite clearly through the passage of anti-Muslim popular initiatives in Switzerland.14 As such, we initially decided to only confer the broader public with the ability to pass popular initiatives that can create new ad-hoc mini-publics to deliberate on an issue of particular relevance. Under this system, the broader public would have some agency in influencing policy through the creation of ad-hoc mini-publics. At the very least, this would ensure that the government consistently considers the issues deemed important by the public, rendering the government aptly responsive. Yet, this would also make it so that the only approved legislation was that which first went through the proper channels of deliberation. In an attempt to produce the ideal democracy, we were trying to construct a system that could properly mitigate the tension between deliberation on the one hand, and mass participation on the other.
After reconsideration, however, we came to the conclusion that denying the broader public the ability to directly pass or revoke legislation is antithetical to the notion of popular sovereignty which is fundamental to democracy. If the only way to actually pass legislation is through deliberative mini-publics, then this cannot truly be considered a democracy. Deliberative democracies claim to produce the consensus that would be reached by “ordinary” citizens if only they had participated in comprehensive deliberative processes. Crucially, this consensus is expected to differ from the opinions of the mass populace at present. Yet, as argued by Cristina Lafont, this betrays the essence of mass
14 Abdeleli, Abdelhafidh. “Switzerland's Controversial Minaret Ban, Ten Years On.” Swissinfo.ch, SWI, 2 Dec. 2019, www.swissinfo.ch/eng/society/political-history_the-controversial-minaret-ban--ten-years-on/45399822.
 
 democracy, particularly because various consensuses may be reached depending on who is selected for the deliberative body.15 Hence, we felt there needed to be an alternative way for the demos, broadly constructed, to maintain both agenda-setting and decision-making powers. Ultimately, we decided this could only be achieved through the reincorporation of popular initiatives and referendums into our legislature. As will be discussed later, in order to retain the centrality of minority rights in our system, we provided the judiciary with a narrow set of powers to overturn popular initiatives that violate basic rights; but these judicial decisions may be further subjected to popular referendums, albeit with a higher threshold for passage than the initial popular initiatives. Finally, we took inspiration from the Swiss system to create the actual process by which popular initiatives and referendums may be passed. In order to put a popular initiative or referendum up to a national vote, the interested party must first collect a substantial amount of petition signatures in favor of the proposal. We included a clause in this article to ensure that all petitions are made available in public spaces for citizens to read and sign, so that each proposal acquires a fair chance to be considered by the public and put up for a national vote.
Article 6: The Conduct of Mini-Publics and Role of Experts
Once we decided to form our government around a robust system of mini-publics, it became clear that we needed to delineate the minimum standards by which these mini-publics ought to be conducted. We had three primary considerations in this regard: the inclusiveness of deliberations, the role of experts, and the interaction between the mini-publics and the broader public. First, we wanted to ensure that the operations of the mini-publics remain “sufficiently inclusive, collaborative, and deliberative, without domination from particular individuals or groups.” In her book The Democratic Paradox, Chantal Mouffe discusses how forms of hegemony and domination—predominantly along lines of race, gender, and class—can be largely replicated in deliberative processes.16 For this reason, we deemed it crucial to include a clause that recognizes the need to institute rules and regulations in order to prevent the reproduction of these power imbalances. While it would be impossible to expound exactly which types of rules this would entail in the Constitution, we accorded this responsibility to the Mini-Public on Governmental Oversight. Second, we thought it was necessary to include a clause outlining the role of experts in deliberations. Because of the deeply important role that experts play in helping to inform citizens and facilitate productive deliberations, we knew there needed to be some formal inclusion of experts into our legislature. However, we also sought to limit the influence of experts on deliberations, so we declared that experts are only responsible for “presenting factual information and answering substantive questions about their relevant subject areas.” Experts are not allowed to use their platform to advocate for a particular ideology, as that would undermine the legitimacy of the deliberations. Furthermore, we decided that the only way to fairly distinguish who is considered an “expert” is to give this power to the mini-publics themselves; giving this power to another body would likely yield groups of expert witnesses who may be unfairly skewed toward a particular political orientation. We opted to use a relatively low threshold of approval in order to call an expert to testify in front of the deliberative bodies, because we thought it was preferable that the mini-publics be presented with a greater amount of information than not. Finally, we wanted to include ways for non-experts and the broader public to engage with the mini-publics, so that the mini-publics are continually exposed to public opinion. We included a process through which non-expert interest groups can testify in front of the mini-publics, resembling the
15 Lafont, Cristina. “Deliberation, Participation, and Democratic Legitimacy: Should Deliberative Mini-Publics Shape Public Policy?” Journal of Political Philosophy, vol. 23, no. 1, 2014, pp. 40–63., doi:10.1111/jopp.12031. 16 Mouffe, Chantal. The Democratic Paradox. Verso Books, 2009.
 
 process to call forward experts. Importantly, we noted that these groups must be clearly distinguishable from experts, because presumably they will not be ideologically “neutral.” Additionally, we incorporated a feedback mechanism between the mini-publics and the citizens in the broader public. We thought this feedback process was critical, not only so that the mini-publics create legislation which aligns with the will of the people, but also so that individuals outside of the mini-publics develop some type of attachment to them, therefore conferring the mini-publics with long-term legitimacy.
THE JUDICIARY
Article 1:
The structure of our judiciary is based off of four main elements: improving the status quo as it exists within the United States judiciary structure (as this is the norm that many of us are currently familiar with), elements adapted from the Norwegian judiciary (since Norway has some of the lowest recidivism rates in the world), principles of effective participation as they relate to open democracy (adapted from Hélène Landemore’s Open Democracy: Reinventing Popular Rule for the Twenty-First Century), and ideals pulled from Dahl’s principles of democracy, including inclusion, effective participation, and enlightened understanding. We start off by assuming a federal system for the judiciary. That is, all courts can be sourced to a central source of power-- namely, the Principal Court. For the purposes of our constitution, we decided against outlining a state court system, which exists in other judiciary structures like the US. We found that the power-sharing and power of judicial review could grow complicated while running these two simultaneous systems. Therefore, we decided that we would rely on a central court system. We divided the courts into three levels: District Courts, Appeals Courts, and the Principal Court. We anticipate that the District and Appeals Courts will be allocated by using factors like geographic region and population density. Moreover, the three levels will operate hierarchically.
In terms of selecting judges themselves, we decided that baseline requirements would be necessary for all candidates for judgeship. However, we believe that once these baseline requirements are met, we should incorporate ideals of open participation and diverse inclusion of citizens as outlined through Landemore’s model of open democracy. Therefore, we decided that selection of District and Appeals Court judges should be done on the basis of self-selection and sortition. Thus, we ended up with a model that allowed for qualified applicants to apply to be put in a lottery system that would allocate District and Appeals Court judges. We then felt that it would be natural for qualification requirements to become more rigorous for higher court levels. Within our selection model, we decided to allow for stratified sampling because we believe that diverse perspectives are crucial within the justice system. This upholds Dahl’s ideal of equal access within a democratic system. Through devising a system in which federal judges are more representative of the populace as a whole, we allow citizens to feel like their perspective matters within the justice system. A principle that we pulled from the Norwegian legislature was that beyond social identification diversity, judges should also come from a wide spectrum of working experiences within the law field.
We additionally decided to create term limits for our judges because this will allow us to rotate more candidates into each position. When we allow for more opportunities for such participation, this further demonstrates “openness” and inclusion.
Article 2:

 The attitudinal model, a theory developed by American judicial scholars Jeffrey Segal and Harold Spaeth17, posits that justices are policy-makers, serving ideology above legal principle. Justices, they suggest, are not unbiased arbitrators operating above the passions of the people as the American Constitution would suggest. The design of the judiciary in Article 2 thus reflects the understanding that justices are (at least in part) ideologically motivated actors. As sortition with rotation best permits the development of informed opinion amongst an ideologically-motivated body, the Principal Court similarly utilizes sortition as a selection mechanism. However, unlike the legislature, selection procedures require prior experience, a particular educational background, and demonstrated success in the field. These additional requirements are included to ensure that chosen justices, who possess the power to overrule statutory decisions, have the necessary sociological skills and comprehensive legal backgrounds to justify the overturn of a decision legislated by a fully democratic body. Moreover, the selection process is designed to produce a highly educated and experienced judiciary.
To speak more to the decision to provide the Principal Court with judicial review, it seems possible that, even with a mini-public’s best intentions to serve the Constitution, the legislature could bring forth law that runs against constitutional principles, particularly the long list of enumerated human rights. The judiciary therefore serves as an immediate check on the legislature without requiring the use of more drawn-out measures-- popular initiatives or referenda-- to be pursued by the populace. But, recognizing the potential dangers of having a less democratic institution with the power to overturn the decisions of a wholly democratic one, a two-thirds majority is required to overrule legislative determinations. Violations of the Constitution therefore must be blatant to require Principal Court action.
Article 2 also stipulates the size and length of service of Principal Court justices. As the Court seeks to be representative of diverse legal and descriptive backgrounds while still allowing for meaningful deliberation, a fifteen member court seemed appropriate. And, because the Court is designed to reflect informed legal opinion, term lengths are relatively short at ten years to guarantee responsiveness to broad constitutional understandings over time. A unique feature incorporated in the judiciary is a one year “training period” for justices prior to taking their seats on the Court. In the American legal tradition, new justices often exhibit a pattern of voting against their legal understandings, such as Sandra Day O’Connor in Roe v. Wade, to avoid appearing inflammatory.18 Thus, in having all fifteen justices enter the Court together with a shadowing period, a seniority-based hierarchy fails to emerge and all justices may feel confident in their ability to interpret constitutional law.
Article 3:
Moreover, we decided to give citizens the simultaneous ability to challenge federal actions in order to preserve the ideal of open, direct democracy that we’ve consistently upheld throughout the creation of this governmental structure. We based our model of citizen intervention off the Swiss judicial review model. Within Switzerland, direct democracy whenever possible is immensely valued. Therefore, citizens may challenge federal laws and propose a constitutional amendment “simply by gaining 100,000
17 Segal, Jeffrey Allan, and Harold J. Spaeth. The Supreme Court and the Attitudinal Model. Cambridge University Press, 1993.
18 “On the Role of Policy Preferences.” The Choices Justices Make, by Lee Epstein and Jack Knight, CQ Press, 2005, pp. 22–51.
 
 signatures in support of a proposal.”19 We decided to adopt a similar system whereby citizens can directly initiate a federal decision recall process. The main distinct feature of the Martian process is that the recall process begins at the district level and is expanded to the wider population in a tiered manner. We decided to allow citizen referendum initiatives to start at a smaller scale to minimize barriers to entry and allow citizens to feel more comfortable participating in the process. However, we do uphold stringent supermajority requirements for the referendum to pass on each geographic level because overturning a federal decision should be widely agreed upon before it’s carried out in order to ensure legitimacy.
Article 4:
The two main legal systems in existence today are the civil and common law systems. While a common law system places a strong emphasis on case precedent in deciding future cases, civil law places judges in a more investigator position of establishing facts and then simply applying the appropriate legal codes and punishments.20 In our discussions of which system would be better for Mars, we generally agreed that a common law system that relied heavily on precedent was less predictable and structured than a civil law system. Whereas in civil law, the codified system sets the structure of how cases should be judged, a common law system built on precedent can be vulnerable to the biases of a judge and ultimately leaves too much power in the hands of individual judges to have the power to alter case law with each new decision set to become precedent. Likewise, with the overall vast amount of decisions being made, a judge can understandably make any decision that fits their viewpoint and find a case that fulfills such precedent. Finally, comparing court proceedings, common law systems have an element of performance to them in the ways lawyers present cases. In common law, lawyers present the facts of a case in a way that creates a competition and comparison of which side presents better, rather than developing a single neutral perspective on the case as occurs with judges investigating a case in a civil law system.21 With that in mind, we preferred a civil law system as we considered it to be less vulnerable to individual manipulation. Also, with a codified structure on the appropriate punishments to be applied to cases, there is less vulnerability for individual bias to affect those being punished in discriminatory manners.
THE EXECUTIVE
Article 1: The Executive Branch
Designing the executive branch represented one of the main challenges we faced when drafting our Constitution. Given that we are heavily influenced by the earth’s political systems, we tend to characterize the executive branch to be vested in a unipersonal figure, such as a president or dictator. However, we wanted to do things differently. The first step we took was to identify and discuss the traditional problems of the executive branch. Among many issues that were brought into the discussion table, we highlighted that we didn’t want the executive branch to be vested in only one person. In addition, we considered that by keeping a unipersonal system there would be a lack of a fair and just mechanism to select the leader, given that lottocratic systems require larger sample sizes and electoral
19 Dixon, Rosalind; Uhlmann, Felix (2018-01). "The Swiss Constitution and a weak-form unconstitutional amendment doctrine?". International Journal of Constitutional Law. 16 (1): 54–74.
20 Syam, Piyali. “What Is the Difference Between Common Law and Civil Law?” What Is the Difference Between Common Law and Civil Law? - Blog | @WashULaw, 28 Jan. 2014, onlinelaw.wustl.edu/blog/common-law-vs-civil-law/.
21 Ibid.
 
 systems are inegalitarian. Also, we aimed our efforts to keep certain continuity between administrations, considering that the current political system is prone to sudden changes of direction. With those topics in mind we started discussing different possibilities to implement in our Constitution. We debated on a variety of ideas, from having a city manager to athenian magistrates. However, none of the “innovative”, but still “earth-minded” proposals convinced us one hundred percent. Within time, alternative and more creative measures were started to be presented. We discussed the possibility of vesting the executive power into an “executive manager” who is hired by the legislature and is in charge of managing the bureaucracy. Another idea that was proposed was a mix of a representative-electoral presidential figure with citizen-commissions that work in conjunction with the Secretaries. Still, we weren’t satisfied with the proposals. We started to think about how we could relate the executive branch with the legislature. This led us to develop a model where the executive branch , composed by citizens, depended directly on the legislature. We came to the conclusion that an Issue-Base Executive body shall exist per each single-issue mini-public. With this design, we aim to decentralize power structures in the executive branch and to increase citizen participation. Nonetheless, we pondered that we were still missing a body that could act immediately when required to handle possible crises. This led us to create an Integrative Body (which will be explained later) that focuses on crisis-management and that complements the work done by the issue-based executive bodies.
Article 2: Issue-Based Executive Bodies
The Issue-Based Executive Bodies work with, and depend on the Single-Issue Mini-Publics.
Aiming to decentralize power and to make the executive branch a more effective organ when implementing programs and executing the laws, we designed a system where there is an Issue-Based Executive Body per each Single-Issue Mini-Public. The powers of the Executive Bodies are strictly delimited, and can be reduced to the execution of the laws that the legislature issues and enacts corresponding to their specific area of responsibility. One central aspect of the Executive Bodies is that the bodies are composed of 11 members, an uneven number in case they need to vote and decide on a particular matter. Interestingly, the term of each member of the executive bodies is 33 months. The idea is that the order is staggered in such a way that one of the 11 members leaves every 3 months. The purpose of this is to maintain certain continuity in the executive branch. We considered that if we replace the 11 members at the same time, time will be required for all those members to adapt, understand, and to execute the laws enacted by the legislature. With our system, while the new-member is adapting to his new position, the 10 other members can guarantee that the executive body will still function in an efficient manner. It is important to consider that the first generation of executive body’s members will be required to adapt to this system, and that some of these original members will serve less than the 33 months established in the Constitution. As an additional aspect, the Executive Bodies have the power to establish the rest of the bureaucracy and executive body required to complete its tasks, although they must establish the workplace in accordance with principles of a democratic workplace. As a last point of interest, considering that there will also be ad-hoc mini-publics that focus on a particular matter, these legislative organs have the power to designate ad-hoc executive bodies that center their efforts on executing the laws enacted by that particular legislative body.
Article 3: Integrative Body
Just as with the legislature, we wanted to have a central body that would be able to handle issues ill-suited to a narrow, issue-based body. It was initially called the central executive body as well, but we

 changed the name to be the integrative body in order to avoid confusion with the central chamber of the legislature. The role of the integrative body is not as expansive as the central chamber mini-public. Rather than signing off on every single executive action, it is only involved in those that cross the boundaries between the two bodies. For example, the integrative body might coordinate cooperation between the economic and environmental bodies on an issue like a carbon-tax. These official powers are intentionally limited. The executive branch has great potential for abuse to begin with and a body that is placed at its center is a risk to exercise undue authority.
The one place where the integrative body goes beyond its limited powers is with its crisis powers. Single executives across electoral democracies on Earth are typically charged with managing crises as they emerge because the short time window to act in a crisis does not leave the door open for deliberations or for an inconsistent approach. Because the integrative body has executive power in all policy areas and is relatively small, it makes the most sense to grant them crisis powers. We created a strict requirement for when crisis powers may be used because we did not want the integrative body to abuse them. In this constitution, crisis powers must be granted by the central mini-public, which has the power to grant them at any time. The integrative body may also request crisis powers, but it must be approved by the central mini-public, which has six hours to give a definitive yes or no response. Six hours may seem short, but in a crisis quick responses are often needed. To account for hasty decisions that may occur during a six hour window, we granted the central body the power to revoke the integrative body’s crisis powers at any time and required them to reapprove of the crisis powers between five and seven days after the initial approval. Any action taken under the crisis designation is also temporary: it expires after two months unless the central body chooses to make it longer. Crisis powers themselves are also temporary, with an amendable time limit set when the powers are granted. Our hope with these powers is that they will be sufficiently robust that the government is not too fragile in the face of major world challenges, but will not be overtaken by individuals acting under crisis power designations with the claim that it is for the greater good.
Article 4: Selection Mechanism
This describes how the members of the single-issued executive bodies will be selected. After drafting four different options and discussing extensively, we decided to keep the selection mechanism as simple as possible, with only a few essential requirements to be considered. To be coherent with the power we have granted to the citizens through the legislative bodies, we determined that it will be efficient to establish that each mini-public is in charge of selecting the members of their particular mini-public through a majority rule voting process. However, we also stated that there are two essential conditions/qualifications that the nominated members must meet: to be a citizen that has lived in Mars for at least 10 years, and to be at least 25 years old. With these requirements, we ensure that the members of the executive bodies have the maturity, experience, and knowledge to deliver the expected results in such an important endeavour. In addition, the Government-Oversight mini-public, which we have already explained, has the power to review the nominations, aiming to have executive bodies that respect diversity principles.
Article 5: Accountability and Checks
Even with the limited executive, it is important that both the legislature and the citizens can check it to hold it accountable for when it fails to do the people or the legislature’s bidding and attempts to assert too much agency beyond the bureaucratic function it is given. To do this, we created two accountability

 mechanisms, both of which are capable of being initiated by either the general public or the mini-public responsible for selecting the members of the executive bodies. The first is simply passing an overriding law or citizens initiative and the second is a recall process for a specific member of an executive body that people are unhappy with. The first method is very simple: if a citizen's initiative or law is passed that contradicts something that the executive had been doing, the executive must abide by the new legislative instructions. If a lawmaker or citizen would like to stop a specific practice of the executive, they may mention that practice directly in the new law. This section reaffirms that the executive branch is a weaker branch than the legislature under our system. The second method is to recall an individual serving on the executive committees, presumably because they were systematically going against the wishes of the legislature, engaging in corruption, or were the center of a scandal that made this executive lose the public trust. To initiate a citizens’ recall, citizens must collect 3% of the population’s signatures, as we established for other citizens initiatives followed by a successful majority vote. For the legislature to initiate a recall, they must have a successful majority vote. Following either of these processes, the mini-public will hold a public hearing, after which either the public or the legislature, whichever initiated the recall process will hold a vote. If 60% of the people or mini-public (depending on which initiated the recall process) vote to recall the executive body member, then they are removed from office. We anticipate that citizens and members of mini-publics will have different, but equally valid, motivations for removing a member of the executive body. Citizens will likely remove them if they do not support their body of work and feel personally harmed or upset at actions made by that individual. On the other hand, members of the legislative branch, who themselves chose the executives that they will be recalling, will likely initiate this if they feel that the executive is not performing as promised or intentionally ignoring legislative instructions. The threshold to have a recall hearing is majoritarian, then the recall hearing occurs so that each side has the chance to make their case and deliberate. The final threshold is slightly supermajoritarian because we believe that decisions like removing someone from office should not be made lightly and should be reserved for more egregious cases. While there may be concerns that this threshold is too high, we believe that the members of the executive will not be particularly partisan figures so public opinion on them should be more malleable. Finally, this article also ensures transparency of the executive so that the public can always make informed decisions on recalls and so that they understand the inner workings of the executive branch.
AMENDMENTS
Article 1:
In Article 1, we stated the scope of what parts of the Constitution could not be amended. We
decided on making four articles four non-amendable. Firstly, Articles 1 and 2 in Section 1, explicate human beings’ fundamental rights on Mars. Article 1 from section 1, The Bill of Human Rights, clarifies that all humans are equal under the law. It binds together the three main branches of government – the legislature, the executive, and the judiciary – and all state organs. Article 2, section 1, states the fundamental rights of all humans at Mars. Secondly, the other two articles we made non-amendable are articles 1 and 2 from the amendment section itself. We wanted to ensure that the 30-year review of the constitution cannot be withdrawn at any point in the future. And, most importantly, we made sure that this article concerning what is not amendable itself cannot be amended.
We had a rich debate about which rights should be non-amenable. In our discussions of non-amendable principles of the constitution, we were aware of the balance between the democratic ideals of equality and legitimacy and making the Martian constitution flexible for future generations. One such

 debate was regarding which rights should and should not be available for change. Initially, we felt that all rights should be amenable – in the US, for example, many liberals wish to eliminate the 2nd Amendment. While none of our rights felt similar to that, we did not know how future Martians would feel about our document. After meeting with Professor Landemore, however, we decided to “tier” our rights to protect the most fundamental ones, such as those professing equality. Having these rights protected would ensure that in the case of a malicious leader or wave of facism, our democracy would not be totally eroded. We decided to make the more experimental rights, such as the Rights of Animals/Nature and Digital Rights, possible to change in case those rights failed to meet their purpose. Ultimately, we chose these four articles to be non-amendable because we wanted to secure the most fundamental democratic rights while ensuring flexibility. The 30-year constitutional review article also ensures basic democratic principles – it makes sure that the constitution at any point in the future meets the interests of the living population of Mars and thereby continuously legitimates the constitution. (Article 2 will be explained further below).
Indeed, the 30 year review relates to one of our principal ideals. We strove to create a constitution with flexibility for future generations, as we realized that future Martians may have a different view of governance. In other words, we wanted to construct the constitution to allow different forms of governance (that still complies with the fundamental and non-amendable democratic rights) – e.g., a representative democracy or a social-democratic society or some government form that we on Earth have never seen, and therefore cannot imagine. Due to this ideal of openness and flexibility, we made the constitution quite amendable – and therefore, only four articles that are non-amendable. This principle of openness and flexibility is reflected in the negative formulation of this article 1 about non-amendable articles. Rather than stating what is amendable and inside the scope of amendments, this article thus explicates the few articles that are not.
Article 2:
This article of the amendment section states that there must be a continuous review of the constitution of Mars in a cycle of 30 years. This is done in the form of a “30-year mini-public”. We wanted to include this continuous review of the constitution since it ensures that the constitution is adaptable to the at the time living population. It gives the government legitimacy while providing openness for change. We felt that 30 years was a long enough time period for the Constitution to not constantly take up political attention and capital, but it was responsive enough to generational shifts. Hopefully, the average Martian will be able to see at least two (or maybe even three) 30-year reviews in their lifetime. The 30-year review also corresponds to our ideal of simplicity by ruling out any superfluous and outdated clauses and makes the constitution less complex and rigid. The construction of this mini-public largely follows the mechanisms of the general mini-publics, making it easier for the population to understand.
Another advantage of the 30-year constitutional review is that it engages the population in the Martian democracy. Whenever the Constitution will be reviewed, people will debate and discuss the fundamental democratic principles which the Martian society is built upon. We imagine that the 30-year review of the constitution will initiate public debates about how the Martian society should be organized – as in Iceland and France. The two-fold review process that entails the mini-public formulating proposals for amendments which the public afterwards have to decide on creates awareness of the fundamental democratic principles and processes of Mars. It also stimulates people’s understanding of the different political and ideological standpoints in the Martian society. Thereby the societal cohesiveness on Mars strengthened and counteracted the rise of party-political echo chambers.

 Furthermore, the review process and public discussions support a general education of the population in how democracy is practiced on Mars, including how the fundamental principle of the constitution manifests itself in practice. Concerning the educational aspect of the continuous review process, we were inspired by Dewey’s idea about how education serves as a foundation for democracy - both as a form of life and education in the constitution.
Finally, the clauses about the legal experts and that the mini-publics are allowed to give advice helps ensure judicial simplicity in the altered constitution, less rigidity, and up-to-date knowledge about the current conduction of the Martian society and the planet as such.
Article 3/4:
We created Article 3/4 (i.e the citizen’s initiative) to allow citizens the chance to amend their constitution outside of the 30 year process. The need to amend a constitution cannot be predicted by time period – there may be a crisis, or failure with the last 30 year revision, or more. Thus, citizens must have a way of amending their constitution without waiting for 30 years. We debated the details of the citizens’ initiative extensively.
First, we debated how citizens’ petitions would translate into actions. Should the petitions draft the amendment themselves? This would change the petition from “We demand an amendment to address the problems in campaign finance laws” to “We demand an amendment which defines corporations as non-human entities and does not give them campaign finance rights.” Or should the petitions bring up a topic area for change? Ultimately, we decided to allow both options: citizens could either bring specific wording or topics. Certain crises may be solved with specific amendments while others may require the attention and thoroughness of an ad-hoc mini public. We recognized there were certain risks with an ad-hoc mini-public. For example, certain assemblies could use their freedom to propose amendments that are not related (or are tangentially related) to the petition. In the US, an assembly convened on gun control might propose an amendment on term-limits, claiming that term-limits decrease the amount of pro-gun politicians. While this is partially true, it is mostly separate from the issue of gun control itself. We decided that citizens could serve as a check on these assemblies through a referendum. If citizens did not approve of the extraneous amendment, they could vote it down. But if they voted for the amendment, that meant that even though it was irrelevant to the petition, it would have had popular support and ultimately still was democratic.
Second, we debated who should vote and what their voting thresholds should be. In regards to the first question, we all agreed that the citizens needed to have a vote. This was because amendments affect every citizen and unlike laws, they are much harder to change. Furthermore, a petition to create an amendment mini-public only needed 5% of the population’s signatures. It is very well possible that many citizens did not see a change for an amendment, and they thus deserve a say in its ratification. Once this question was resolved, we then turned to the mini-publics. If citizens were going to serve as a check on the mini-public’s power, what percent of the vote did the amendment need within the body? We decided that the mini-public only needed a majority (i.e 50% or more) vote. This is because we wanted the mini-public to have the option of releasing multiple options to citizens. Since the mini-public reflects the citizen population, it is entirely possible that citizens agreed on the need for an amendment, but disagreed on the execution. Having multiple options for the same topic, then, gives all citizens a chance to be heard. A majority threshold allows for cross-coalition building: one member of the mini public might vote for Proposals A and B, but not C. A 60% threshold would limit how many options a mini-public could release, since it necessitates a high level of support. For the public referendum itself, however, we decided

 the threshold would be 60%. This would ensure that whatever proposal was selected would have a high, but achievable, base of citizen support.
