Note=Added Ti=

Ti=Miscellaneous

// orig - only modified for format 

1.Ti=Entire agreement

1.sec=This constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with respect to its subject matter, and supersedes all previous agreements, promises, proposals, representations, understandings and negotiations, whether written or oral, between the parties regarding the subject matter.

2.Ti=No Modifications

2.sec=No modification or amendment or supplement to this agreement shall be binding unless made in writing and signed by a duly authorized representative of both parties.

3.Ti=Counterparts

3.sec=This agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument. A facsimile of a signed copy of this agreement or other copy made by reliable mechanical means may be relied upon as an original.

4.Ti=Waiver

4.sec=No failure or delay on the part of any party in exercising any right or remedy provided in this agreement shall operate as a waiver thereof or preclude any exercise thereof, or the exercise of any other right or remedy provided under this agreement, or otherwise available at law or in equity.

5.Ti=Cumulative Remedies

5.sec=Except if expressly provided herein, no remedy specified in this agreement is intended to be exclusive of any other remedy, and each remedy shall be cumulative, in addition to every other right or remedy provided herein, or otherwise available at law or in equity.

6.Ti=Severance

6.sec=To the extent that any term, provision or part of this agreement is held invalid, void, or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of this agreement shall not be impaired or affected, and shall continue in full force and effect, and shall be valid and enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.

7.Ti=Survival

7.sec=Any provision of this agreement that contemplates performance or observance subsequent to termination or expiration of this agreement (including confidentiality and data protection, limitation of liability, indemnification provisions and perpetual licenses) shall survive termination or expiration of this agreement, and shall continue in full force and effect thereafter.

=[Z/ol/7]