Ti=Service Levels.

1.Ti=Service Level Commitment and Reporting

1.sec={_Vendor} commits to provide the Services in accordance with the Services Levels as set forth in the applicable {_SOW}. {_Vendor} shall provide monthly reports to {_Client} regarding its performance relative to the Service Levels. If {_Vendor} fails to meet a Service Level in a month, {_Vendor} shall: (a) report that failure to {_Client}; (b) promptly investigate the causes of the problem; (c) prepare a report identifying the causes and the methods to be used by {_Vendor} to correct the problem and prevent a recurrence; (d) take commercially reasonable actions necessary to correct the problem and begin meeting the Service Levels as soon as practicable; (e) advise {_Client} of the status of the remedial efforts being undertaken with respect to such problem; and (f) if requested by {_Client} due to the nature of the problem or its recurrence, make available for meetings and consultation with {_Client} those personnel within {_Vendor} who are the recognized experts with respect to the problem. {_Vendor} shall utilize the necessary measurement and monitoring tools and procedures to measure and report {_Vendor}’s performance of the Services against the applicable Service Levels to {_Client} on a monthly basis. Such measurement and monitoring shall permit reporting at a level of detail sufficient to verify compliance with the Service Levels, and shall be subject to audit by {_Client} in accordance with Section 9.5 (Audits) of this Agreement.

2.Ti=Service Level Credits

2.sec={_Vendor} recognizes that its failure to meet the Service Levels may have a material adverse impact on the business and operations of {_Client} and that the damage from {_Vendor}’s failure to meet a Service Level cannot be precisely determined. Accordingly, in the event that {_Vendor} fails to meet a Service Level, then, in addition to any non-monetary remedies available to {_Client} under this Agreement, in equity or at law, {_Client} shall recover, the corresponding “Service Level Credit” specified in the applicable {_SOW} as liquidated damages and not a penalty. {_Vendor} shall not be required to pay Service Level credits to the extent that failure to meet Service Levels is caused solely: (a) by the actions of {_Client}; or (b) circumstances that constitute a {_Vendor} Force Majeure Event.

=[Z/ol/2]
