=[G/TechContractsAcademy-SoftwareLicense/Outline/BusinessSubsections.md]

Note=from [?https://TechContracts.com/]  The introductory materials are visible by looking at the source of this page via the link to "GitHub" above.

Note=This is a first, simple prose objectification of the license agreement.  It breaks each section and subsection into a separate unit (key/value) and reassembles them into the whole document.  It has a few alternatives, done with the /Alt/ widget.  Only one section, ConfInfo (Confidential Information) is broken out into a separate file and referenced for transclusion.  The original footnotes are now directly next to the text. 

Note=The semantic naming of sections only goes to the section level, not to subsections and beyond, which remain with their original number references.  Cross-references and defined terms have not yet been parameterized and made into links to the referenced section or definition.  In short, this document has only begun to be automated.

THE TECH CONTRACTS HANDBOOK
Cloud Computing Agreements, Software Licenses, and Other IT Contracts for Lawyers and Businesspeople
Second Edition
by David W. Tollen
(ABA Publishing - Intellectual Property Law Section of the American Bar Association; 2015)
 
Form Contract
Software License, Customization, & Maintenance Agreement
 
Software License w/ Integration or Other Customization; Short Maintenance Terms; Source Code Escrow
 
 
You may use the form contract below subject to the “Terms of Use” posted at http://techcontracts.com/privacy/. In addition to the Terms of Use, PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING DISCLAIMER BEFORE USING THE FORM CONTRACT:

NEITHER THE AUTHOR NOR THE PUBLISHER REPRESENTS THAT THE FORM CONTRACT BELOW WILL MEET YOUR SPECIFIC GOALS, PROTECT YOUR SPECIFIC INTERESTS, OR WITHSTAND CHALLENGES TO ITS LEGAL OR FACTUAL SUFFICIENCY. The form contract below is general in nature and may not be sufficient for a specific contractual, technological, or legal problem or dispute. THE FORM IS NOT PROVIDED WITH ANY GUARANTY, WARRANTY, OR REPRESENTATION AS TO QUALITY OR SUITABILITY FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Publication of the form does not constitute the practice of law and is not legal counsel or advice. Neither the author nor the publisher of The Tech Contracts Handbook, nor anyone affiliated with the book’s Website, is rendering a legal or other professional service. The form should not be relied upon as a substitute for consultation with an attorney.


Note that this document uses Microsoft Word multi-level bullets/numbering for section numbers and cross-referencing features for section references.

Please delete all text above the following dotted line, as well as the line itself and the page-break following it, before using this form.

------------------------------------

Doc.Ti=Software License, Customization, and Maintenance Agreement

This.sec=This {Doc.Ti} (this “{Def.Agreement.sec}”) is entered into as of {EffectiveDate.YMD} (the “Effective Date”) by and between {Vendor.US.N,E,A} (“{_Vendor}”), and {Customer.US.N,E,A} (“{_Customer}”).

RECITALS

Why.=[G/TechContractsAcademy-SoftwareLicense/Sec/Why/0.md]

That.sec=Therefore, in consideration of the mutual covenants, terms, and conditions set forth below, including those outlined on Attachments A and B (which are incorporated into this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> by this reference), the adequacy of which consideration is hereby accepted and acknowledged, the parties agree as set forth below.<br><br><center>TERMS AND CONDITIONS</center>

Def.Ti=DEFINITIONS

Def.0.sec=The following capitalized terms will have the following meanings whenever used in this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a>.

Def.Customization_Services.sec=“<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customization_Services.sec'>Customization Services</a>” means such <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> services as are set forth in Attachment A.

Def.Deliverable.sec="<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Deliverable.sec'>Deliverable</a>" means any software or other deliverable created pursuant to <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customization_Services.sec'>Customization Services</a>, in object code format.

Def.Documentation.sec="<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Documentation.sec'>Documentation</a>" means the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a>’s standard user manual.

Def.Go-Live.sec=“<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Go-Live.sec'>Go-Live</a>” refers to the earlier of (a) Acceptance of the final <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Deliverable.sec'>Deliverable</a> pursuant to Attachment A or (b) <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a>’s first use of the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a> in production.

Def.License_Term.sec=“<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.License_Term.sec'>License Term</a>” is defined in Subsection {Life.TerminationCause.Xnum}(a) below.

Def.Maintenance_Term.sec=“<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Maintenance_Term.sec'>Maintenance Term</a>” is defined in Subsection {Life.TerminationCause.Xnum}(b) below.

Def.Software.sec=“<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a>” means <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a>’s {SoftwareApp.Name} software, in object code format.

Def.Specifications.0.sec=“<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Specifications.sec'>Specifications</a>” means:

Def.Specifications.1.sec=for the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a>, before <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Go-Live.sec'>Go-Live</a>, <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a>’s standard specifications set forth in the then-current <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Documentation.sec'>Documentation</a> and at {VendorStandardSpecifications.URL};

Def.Specifications.2.sec=for each <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Deliverable.sec'>Deliverable</a>, such specifications and requirements as are listed in Attachment A; and

Def.Specifications.3.sec=for the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a>, after <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Go-Live.sec'>Go-Live</a>, the requirements of Subsection {Def.Specifications.Xnum}(a) above as modified by Subsection {Def.Specifications.Xnum}(b) above.

[FootNote A1]=This definition has three parts on the assumption that the software exists in three different stages: as initially delivered, individual deliverables, and the final package comprising both.

Def.Specifications.=[G/Z/ol-a/s3]

Def.Upgrade.sec=“<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Upgrade.sec'>Upgrade</a>” means a new versions, updates, or upgrades of the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a>, in object code format.

Def.User.sec=“<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.User.sec'>User</a>” means an employee or contractor of <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a>.

Def.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

License.=[G/TechContractsAcademy-SoftwareLicense/Sec/License/0.md]

Customize.Ti=CUSTOMIZATION SERVICES

Customize.Perform.Ti=Provision of Customization Services

Customize.Perform.sec=<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> shall provide the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customization_Services.sec'>Customization Services</a>, and <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> shall provide such assistance and cooperation as are necessary or convenient to facilitate the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customization_Services.sec'>Customization Services</a> or are called for in Attachment A.

Customize.Perform.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

Customize.Deliver.Ti=Deliverables

Customize.Deliver.1.Ti=Acceptance & Rejection

Customize.Deliver.1.sec=Each <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Deliverable.sec'>Deliverable</a>, and the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a> itself upon incorporation of the final <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Deliverable.sec'>Deliverable</a>, will be considered accepted (“Acceptance”) (i) when <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> provides <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> written notice of acceptance or (ii) {Acceptance.MaxPeriodForResponse.Days} after delivery, if <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> has not first provided <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> with written notice of rejection. <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> may reject a <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Deliverable.sec'>Deliverable</a> or the final <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a> only in the event that it materially deviates from its <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Specifications.sec'>Specifications</a> and only via written notice setting forth the nature of such deviation. In the event of such rejection, <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> shall correct the deviation and redeliver the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Deliverable.sec'>Deliverable</a> or final <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a> within {RedeliverWithIn.Days}. After redelivery pursuant to the previous sentence, the parties shall again follow the acceptance procedures set forth in this Subsection {Customize.Deliver.Xnum}(a).

Customize.Deliver.2.Ti=Incorporation of Deliverables

Customize.Deliver.2.sec=Upon Acceptance, each <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Deliverable.sec'>Deliverable</a> will constitute an element of the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a> and will thereafter be subject to this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a>’s terms regarding the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a>, including without limitation license, warranty, and indemnity terms.

Customize.Deliver.=[G/Z/ol-a/2]


Maintain.Ti=MAINTENANCE

Maintain.Perform.Ti=Provision of Maintenance

Maintain.Perform.sec=During each <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Maintenance_Term.sec'>Maintenance Term</a>, <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> shall exercise commercially reasonable efforts promptly to correct any failure of the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a> to perform according to its <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Specifications.sec'>Specifications</a> (“Maintenance”).

Note="Maintenance" is defined but, AKAIK, not used.

Maintain.Perform.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

Maintain.Upgrade.Ti=Upgrades

Maintain.Upgrade.sec=During each <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Maintenance_Term.sec'>Maintenance Term</a>, <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> shall provide <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> with copies of all <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Upgrade.sec'>Upgrades</a>, without additional charge, promptly after commercial release. Upon delivery to <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a>, each <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Upgrade.sec'>Upgrade</a> will constitute an element of the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a> and will thereafter be subject to this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a>’s terms regarding <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a>, including without limitation license, warranty, and indemnity terms.

Maintain.Upgrade.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

[FootNote A3]=Vendors should consider whether upgrades will interfere with customized functionality. If so, consider exceptions to the contract's warranty provisions.

Compensate.Ti=FEES & REIMBURSEMENT

Compensate.Fee.Ti=Fees

Compensate.Fee.0.sec=<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> shall pay <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> as follows:

Compensate.Fee.1.sec=For the licenses granted in Section {License.Grant.Xnum} above, {LicenseFee.$} (“License Fees”) per <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.License_Term.sec'>License Term</a>, with each payment due {LicenseFee.PaymentDueBeforeTerm.Days} before the start of such <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.License_Term.sec'>License Term</a>;

Compensate.Fee.2.sec=For Maintenance (as defined in Section {Maintain.Perform.Xnum}), {MaintenanceFee.$} (“Maintenance Fees”) per <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Maintenance_Term.sec'>Maintenance Term</a>, with each payment due {LicenseFee.PaymentDueBeforeTerm.Days} before the start of such <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Maintenance_Term.sec'>Maintenance Term</a>; and

Compensate.Fee.3.sec=For <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customization_Services.sec'>Customization Services</a>, such fees as are set forth in Attachment A (“<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customization_Services.sec'>Customization Services</a> Fees.sec'>). <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> shall also reimburse such expenses as <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> reasonably incurs in provision of <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customization_Services.sec'>Customization Services</a>, subject to the provisions of Attachment A.

Compensate.Fee.=[G/Z/ol-a/s3]

Compensate.Invoice.Ti=Invoices

Compensate.Invoice.sec=Payment against all invoices will be due within 30 days thereof.

Compensate.Invoice.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

Compensate.Renewal.Ti=Fees for Renewed Terms

Compensate.Renewal.sec=<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> may increase the License Fee and/or Maintenance Fee by an amount not to exceed Licensor’s prevailing prices to its customers generally for such products or services, not to exceed the rate of increase of the Consumer Price Index plus {LicenseFee.Increase.Max.CPI-Plus.%}, for each renewed <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.License_Term.sec'>License Term</a> or <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Maintenance_Term.sec'>Maintenance Term</a> (pursuant to Section {Life.TerminationCause.Xnum} below), provided <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> gives <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> written notice of such increase {LicenseFee.Increase.PriorNotice.Days} or longer before the end of the applicable current <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.License_Term.sec'>License Term</a> or <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Maintenance_Term.sec'>Maintenance Term</a>. (“Consumer Price Index” refers to the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics, Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers, All U.S. Cities Average, published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States Department of Labor, or such successor index, appropriately converted to an equivalent reference base, as will be published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.) No new <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.License_Term.sec'>License Term</a> or <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Maintenance_Term.sec'>Maintenance Term</a> will go into effect before payment of the applicable License Fees or Maintenance Fees.

Compensate.Renewal.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

IP.Ti=IP & FEEDBACK

IP.Software.Ti=IP Rights in the Software

IP.Software.sec=<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> retains all right, title, and interest in and to the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Documentation.sec'>Documentation</a> and <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a>, including without limitation <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Deliverable.sec'>Deliverable</a>s and <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Upgrade.sec'>Upgrades</a>, except to the extent of the limited licenses specifically set forth in Section {License.Grant.Xnum} (Licenses), the last sentence of Section {License.Document.Xnum} (Documentation) above, and Section {SourceCodeEscrow.License.Xnum} (Escrow License) below. <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> recognizes that the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a> and its components are protected by copyright and other laws.

IP.Software.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

IP.Feedback.Ti=Feedback

IP.Feedback.sec=<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> has not agreed to and does not agree to treat as confidential any <a class='definedterm' href='#Feedback'>Feedback</a> (as defined below) that <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> or <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.User.sec'>Users</a> provide to <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a>, and nothing in this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> or in the parties’ dealings arising out of or related to this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> will restrict <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a>’s right to use, profit from, disclose, publish, keep secret, or otherwise exploit <a class='definedterm' href='#Feedback'>Feedback</a>, without compensating or crediting <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> or the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.User.sec'>User</a> in question. Notwithstanding the provisions of Article {ConfInfo.Xnum} (Confidential Information) below, <a class='definedterm' href='#Feedback'>Feedback</a> will not be considered <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a>’s Confidential Information. (“{Def.Feedback.sec}” refers to any suggestion or idea for improving or otherwise modifying any of <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a>’s products or services.)

IP.Feedback.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

ConfInfo.=[G/TechContractsAcademy-SoftwareLicense/Sec/ConfInfo/0.md]

ConfInfo.Def.Direction.SecName=ConfInfo.Def.Direction

SoftwareAudit.Ti=SOFTWARE AUDIT

SoftwareAudit.sec=During the Term of this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> and at any time during the {SoftwareAudit.ContinuingAfterTerm.Period} thereafter, <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> may audit <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a>’s use of <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a> on {SoftwareAudit.Notice.Days}’ advance written notice. <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> shall cooperate with the audit, including by providing access to any books, computers, records, or other information that relate or may relate to use of <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a>. Such audit will not unreasonably interfere with <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a>’s business activities. If <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> discovers unauthorized use, reproduction, distribution, or other exploitation of <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a>, in excess of {SoftwareAudit.CostShiftedOnShortfallOf.%} of the copies or fees that would have applied to authorized exploitation, <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> shall reimburse <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> for the reasonable cost of the audit, or of the next audit in case of discovery without an audit, in addition to such other rights and remedies as <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> may have. <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> may not conduct an audit more than once per year. <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a>’s books and records disclosed pursuant to an audit will be considered <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a>’s Confidential Information pursuant to Article {ConfInfo.Xnum} above unless <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> informs <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> to the contrary in writing.

SoftwareAudit.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

SourceCodeEscrow.Ti=SOURCE CODE ESCROW

SourceCodeEscrow.Contract.Ti=Escrow Agreement

SourceCodeEscrow.Contract.sec=Concurrent with execution of this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a>, the parties shall execute a third party escrow agreement in the form attached hereto as Attachment B (the “{Def.Escrow_Agreement.sec}”), in conjunction with {SoftwareEscrow.Agent.US.N,E,A} (the “{Def.Escrow_Agent.sec}”).

SourceCodeEscrow.Contract.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

SourceCodeEscrow.Deposit.Ti=Deposit & Verification

SourceCodeEscrow.Deposit.1.Ti=Deposit

SourceCodeEscrow.Deposit.1.1.sec=Within {SoftwareEscrow.DepositWithin.Period} of the Effective Date, <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> shall deposit with the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Escrow_Agent.sec'>Escrow Agent</a>, pursuant to the procedures of the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Escrow_Agreement.sec'>Escrow Agreement</a>, the source code for the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a>, as well as the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Documentation.sec'>Documentation</a> and names and contact information for each author or other creator of the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a>.

[FootNote A6]=This is particularly customer-friendly.

SourceCodeEscrow.Deposit.1.2.sec=Promptly after Acceptance of any <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Deliverable.sec'>Deliverable</a> or delivery of any <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Upgrade.sec'>Upgrade</a>, <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> shall deposit updated source code, <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Documentation.sec'>Documentation</a>, names, and contact information with the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Escrow_Agent.sec'>Escrow Agent</a>. (“Deposit Material” refers to material required to be deposited pursuant to this Subsection {SourceCodeEscrow.Deposit.Xnum}(a).).

SourceCodeEscrow.Deposit.1.=[G/Z/para/s2]

SourceCodeEscrow.Deposit.2.Ti=Verification

SourceCodeEscrow.Deposit.2.sec=At <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a>’s request and expense, the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Escrow_Agent.sec'>Escrow Agent</a> may at any time verify the Deposit Material, including without limitation by compiling source code, comparing it to the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a>, and reviewing the completeness and accuracy of any and all material. In the event that the Deposit Material does not conform to the requirements of Subsection {SourceCodeEscrow.Deposit.Xnum}(a) above: (i) <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> shall promptly deposit conforming Deposit Material; and (ii) <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> shall pay the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Escrow_Agent.sec'>Escrow Agent</a> for subsequent verification of the new Deposit Material. Any breach of the provisions of Subsection {SourceCodeEscrow.Deposit.Xnum}(b)(i) above will constitute material breach of this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a>, and no further payments will be due from <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> until such breach is cured, in addition to such other remedies as <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> may have.

SourceCodeEscrow.Deposit.=[G/Z/ol-a/2]

SourceCodeEscrow.License.Ti=Escrow License

SourceCodeEscrow.License.sec=<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> hereby grants <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> a license to use, reproduce, and create derivative works from the Deposit Material, provided <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> may not distribute or sublicense the Deposit Material or make any use of it whatsoever except for such internal use as is necessary to maintain and support the Software. Copies of the Deposit Material created or transferred pursuant to this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> are licensed, not sold, and <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> receives no title to or ownership of any copy or of the Deposit Material itself. The Deposit Material constitutes Confidential Information of <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> pursuant to Article {ConfInfo.Xnum} (Confidential Information) above (provided no provision of Article {ConfInfo.Xnum} calling for return of Confidential Information before termination of this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> or of the applicable <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.License_Term.sec'>License Term</a> will apply to the Deposit Material).

SourceCodeEscrow.License.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

SourceCodeEscrow.Release.Ti=Escrow Release Conditions

SourceCodeEscrow.Release.sec=The term “Release Conditions,” as used in the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Escrow_Agreement.sec'>Escrow Agreement</a>, refers to any of the following: (a) material breach by <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> of Section {Maintain.Perform.Xnum} (Provision of Maintenance) above, if such breach remains uncured {SoftwareEscrow.Cure.Period} or more business days after <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a>’s written notice; (b) any failure of <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> to function as a going concern; (c) appointment, application for, or consent to a receiver, trustee, or other custodian for <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> or its assets; (d) <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> becomes insolvent or unable to pay its debts as they mature in the ordinary course or makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors; (e) <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> is liquidated or dissolved; or (f) any proceedings are commenced with regard to <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> under any bankruptcy, insolvency, or debtor’s relief law, and such proceedings are not dismissed within 60 days.

SourceCodeEscrow.Release.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

Warrant.Ti=REPRESENTATIONS & WARRANTIES

Warrant.Vendor.Ti=From Vendor

Warrant.Vendor.SoftwareFunction.Ti=Re Function

Warrant.Vendor.SoftwareFunction.sec=<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> represents and warrants that, during the {Warranty.SoftwarePerformance.Period} following <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Go-Live.sec'>Go-Live</a>, the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a> will perform materially as described in its <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Specifications.sec'>Specifications</a>.

Warrant.Vendor.SoftwareFunction.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

[FootNote A7]=You could instead warrant that each <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Deliverable.sec'>Deliverable</a> will function according to its <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Specifications.sec'>Specifications</a>, and possibly separately warrant that the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a> as initially delivered will perform according to its <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Specifications.sec'>Specifications</a>. (See the definition of "<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Specifications.sec'>Specifications</a>" in Article 1.) The result would be multiple warranties.

Warrant.Vendor.SoftwareVirus.Ti=Re Viruses

Warrant.Vendor.SoftwareVirus.sec=<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> represents and warrants that the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a> and any media used to distribute it contain no viruses or other computer instructions or technological means intended to disrupt, damage, or interfere with the use of computers or related systems.

Warrant.Vendor.SoftwareVirus.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

[FootNote A8]=This is relatively customer-friendly.

Warrant.Vendor.SoftwareIP.Ti=Re IP Rights in the Software.

Warrant.Vendor.SoftwareIP.sec=Subject to the next sentence, <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> represents and warrants that it is the owner of the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a> and of each and every component thereof, or the recipient of a valid license thereto, and that it has and will maintain the full power and authority to grant the rights granted in this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> without the further consent of any third party. <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a>’s representations and warranties in the preceding sentence do not apply to the extent that the infringement arises out of any of the conditions listed in Subsection {Indemnify.ByVendor.Xnum}(a) below. In the event of a breach of the warranty in this Subsection {Warrant.Vendor.Xnum}(c), <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a>, at its own expense, shall promptly take the following actions: (i) secure for <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> the right to continue using the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a>; (ii) replace or modify the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a> to make it noninfringing, provided such modification or replacement will not materially degrade any functionality listed in the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Specifications.sec'>Specifications</a>; or (iii) refund {Warranty.SoftwareInfringement.Refund.%} of the licensee fee paid for the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a> for every month remaining in the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.License_Term.sec'>License Term</a>, in which case <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> may terminate any or all <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> licenses to the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a> granted in this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> and require return or destruction of copies thereof. In conjunction with <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a>’s right to terminate for breach where applicable and the provisions of Section {Indemnify.ByVendor.Xnum} below (Indemnification From <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a>), the preceding sentence states <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a>’s sole obligation and liability, and <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a>’s sole remedy, for breach of the warranty in this Subsection {Warrant.Vendor.Xnum}(c) and for potential or actual intellectual property infringement by the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a>.

Warrant.Vendor.SoftwareIP.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

Warrant.Vendor.CustomizePerform.Ti=Re Customization Services

Warrant.Vendor.CustomizePerform.sec=<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> represents and warrants that all <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customization_Services.sec'>Customization Services</a> will be performed in a professional and workmanlike manner.

Warrant.Vendor.CustomizePerform.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

Warrant.Vendor.sec=<ol type="a"><li>{Warrant.Vendor.SoftwareFunction.Sec}<li>{Warrant.Vendor.SoftwareVirus.Sec}<li>{Warrant.Vendor.SoftwareIP.Sec}<li>{Warrant.Vendor.CustomizePerform.Sec}</ol>

Warrant.Vendor.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

Warrant.Mutual.Ti=From Both Parties

Warrant.Mutual.sec=Each party represents and warrants that it has the full right and authority to enter into, execute, and perform its obligations under this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> and that no pending or threatened claim or litigation known to it would have a material adverse impact on its ability to perform as required by this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a>.

Warrant.Mutual.=[G/Z/ol/3]

Warrant.Limit.Ti=Warranty Disclaimers

Warrant.Limit.sec=Except for the express warranties in Section {Warrant.Vendor.Xnum} above, <span style="text-transform:uppercase"><a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> makes no warranties, either express or implied, including without limitation any implied warranty of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, or noninfringement of intellectual property rights or any implied warranty arising from statute, course of dealing, course of performance, or usage of trade.</span> <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> does not warrant that the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a> will perform without error or that it will run without immaterial interruption. <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> provides no warranty regarding, and will have no responsibility for, any claim arising out of: (a) a modification of the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a> made by anyone other than <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a>, unless <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> approves such modification in writing; or (b) use of the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a> in combination with any operating system not authorized in the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Specifications.sec'>Specifications</a> or <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Documentation.sec'>Documentation</a> or with hardware or software specifically forbidden by the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Specifications.sec'>Specifications</a> or <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Documentation.sec'>Documentation</a>.

Warrant.Limit.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

Warrant.sec=<ol><li>{Warrant.Vendor.Sec}<li>{Warrant.Mutual.Sec}<li>{Warrant.Limit.Sec}</ol>

Warrant.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

Indemnify.Ti=INDEMNIFICATION

Indemnify.ByVendor.Ti=From Vendor

Indemnify.ByVendor.0.sec=<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> shall defend and indemnify <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> and <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a>’s Associates (as defined below in Section {Indemnify.LawSuit.Xnum}) against any “Indemnified Claim,” meaning any third party claim, suit, or proceeding arising out of, related to, or alleging infringement of any patent, copyright, trade secret, or other intellectual property right by the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a>.

Indemnify.ByVendor.1.Ti=Exceptions to IP Indemnity

Indemnify.ByVendor.1.sec=<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a>’s obligations set forth in this Section {Indemnify.ByVendor.Xnum} do not apply to the extent that an Indemnified Claim arises out of: (i) <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a>’s breach of this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a>; (ii) revisions to the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a> made without <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a>’s written consent; (iii) <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a>’s failure to incorporate <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Upgrade.sec'>Upgrades</a> that would have avoided the alleged infringement, provided <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> offered such <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Upgrade.sec'>Upgrades</a> without charges not otherwise required pursuant to this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a>; (iv) <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a>’s modification of <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a> in compliance with specifications provided by <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a>, including without limitation <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Deliverable.sec'>Deliverable</a>s to the extent created based on such specifications, provided the exception in this Subsection {Indemnify.ByVendor.Xnum}(a)(iv) does not apply if the alleged infringement results from the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a>’s method of implementing <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a>’s specifications, rather than as an inevitable result of implementing such specifications; or (v) use of the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a> in combination with hardware or software not provided by <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a>, unless the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Documentation.sec'>Documentation</a> or <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Specifications.sec'>Specifications</a> refers to a combination with such hardware or software (without directing the user not to perform such a combination).

[FootNote A9]=This is a customer-friendly qualification (though not the most customer-friendly version in Chapter II.J.3 of The Tech Contracts Handbook).

Indemnify.ByVendor.2.Ti=Response to Claims

Indemnify.ByVendor.2.sec=In the event of an Indemnified Claim, <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> may exercise any of the rights set forth in Subsections {Warrant.Vendor.Xnum}(c)(i) through {Warrant.Vendor.Xnum}(c)(iii) above, including without limitation its right therein to terminate licenses and require return of the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a>.

Indemnify.ByVendor.=[G/Z/ol-a/2]

Indemnify.Mutual.Ti=From Customer

Indemnify.Mutual.sec=<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> shall indemnify and defend <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> and <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a>’s Associates (as defined below in Section {Indemnify.LawSuit.Xnum}) against any “Indemnified Claim,” meaning any third party claim, suit, or proceeding arising out of, related to, or alleging: (a) the injury to or death of any individual, or any loss of or damage to real or tangible personal property, caused by the act or omission of <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> or of any of its agents, subcontractors, or employees; or (b) any of the acts or events described in Subsection {Indemnify.ByVendor.Xnum}(a)(i) through {Indemnify.ByVendor.Xnum}(a)(v) above.

Indemnify.Mutual.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

Indemnify.LawSuit.Ti=Litigation & Additional Terms

Indemnify.LawSuit.sec=The obligations of the indemnifying party (“Indemnitor”) pursuant to Section {Indemnify.ByVendor.Xnum} or {Indemnify.Mutual.Xnum} above: (a) include retention and payment of attorneys and payment of court costs, as well as settlement at Indemnitor’s expense and payment of judgments; and (b) will be excused to the extent that the other contracting party’s (“Indemnified Party’s”) or any of such Indemnified Party’s Associates’ failure to provide prompt notice of the Indemnified Claim or reasonably to cooperate materially prejudices the defense. Indemnitor will control the defense of any Indemnified Claim, including appeals, negotiations, and any settlement or compromise thereof; provided Indemnified Party will have the right, not to be exercised unreasonably, to reject any settlement or compromise that requires that it admit wrongdoing or liability or subjects it to any ongoing affirmative obligations. (As used in this Article {Indemnify.Xnum}, a party’s “Associates” are its officers, directors, shareholders, parents, subsidiaries, agents, successors, and assigns.)

Indemnify.LawSuit.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

LimitLiability.Ti=LIMITATION OF LIABILITY

LimitLiability.Cap.Ti=Dollar Cap

LimitLiability.Cap.sec=<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a>’s liability arising out of or related to this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> will not exceed {LimitVendorLiability.Max.$}.

LimitLiability.Cap.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

LimitLiability.ConsequentialDamages.Ti=Exclusion of Consequential Damages

LimitLiability.ConsequentialDamages.1.sec=In no event will <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> be liable to <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> for any consequential, indirect, special, incidental, or punitive damages arising out of or related to this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a>.

[FootNote A10]=Many customers insist on mutual limits of liability. In those cases, the vendor should consider excluding IP infringement and possibly other claims from the limit.

LimitLiability.ConsequentialDamages.2.sec=The liabilities limited by this Article {LimitLiability.Xnum} apply: (a) to liability for negligence; (b) regardless of the form of action, whether in contract, tort, strict product liability, or otherwise; (c) even if <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> is advised in advance of the possibility of the damages in question and even if such damages were foreseeable; and (d) even if <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a>’s remedies fail of their essential purpose.

LimitLiability.ConsequentialDamages.3.sec=If applicable law limits the application of the provisions of this Article {LimitLiability.Xnum}, <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a>’s liability will be limited to the maximum extent permissible. For the avoidance of doubt, <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a>’s liability limits and other rights set forth in this Article {LimitLiability.Xnum} apply likewise to <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a>’s affiliates, licensors, suppliers, advertisers, agents, sponsors, directors, officers, employees, consultants, and other representatives.

LimitLiability.ConsequentialDamages.sec=<span style="text-transform:uppercase">{LimitLiability.ConsequentialDamages.1.sec}</span> <span style="text-transform:uppercase">{LimitLiability.ConsequentialDamages.2.sec}</span>{LimitLiability.ConsequentialDamages.3.sec}

LimitLiability.ConsequentialDamages.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

LimitLiability.Except.Ti=Exceptions to Limitation of Liability

LimitLiability.Except.sec=Sections {LimitLiability.Cap.Xnum} (Dollar Cap) and {LimitLiability.ConsequentialDamages.Xnum} (Exclusion of Consequential Damages) above do not apply to: (a) breach of Section {ConfInfo.NDA.Xnum} (Nondisclosure) above; (b) obligations and liabilities pursuant to Article {Indemnify.Xnum} above (Indemnification); or (c) claims for attorneys’ fees and other litigation costs recoverable by the prevailing party in any action.

LimitLiability.Except.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

Life.Ti=TERM & TERMINATION

Life.Term.Ti=Term

Life.Term.0.sec=This <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> will continue until terminated by either party as specifically authorized herein.

Life.Term.1.Ti=License Term

Life.Term.1.1.sec=“<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.License_Term.sec'> refers to the {LicenseTerm.Period} period following the Effective Date.

[FootNote A11]=This is a particularly vendor-friendly start-date. <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a>s generally prefer <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Go-Live.sec'>Go-Live</a>.

Life.Term.1.2.sec= The <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.License_Term.sec'>License Term</a> will renew automatically for a period of the same duration unless <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> gives written notice of its intent not to renew {LicenseRenewal.AutomaticUnless.NoticePeriod.Days} before the end of the current <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.License_Term.sec'>License Term</a>.

Life.Term.1.3.sec=After the {LicenseGuaranteedRenewalCycles.#} renewal of the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.License_Term.sec'>License Term</a>, <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> may refuse further renewal by written notice {LicenseGuaranteedRenewalCycles.EndNoticePeriod.Days} before the next renewal date.

Life.Term.1.=[G/Z/para/s3]

Life.Term.2.Ti=<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Maintenance_Term.sec'>Maintenance Term</a>

Life.Term.2.1.sec=“<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Maintenance_Term.sec'> refers to the {MaintenanceTerm.Period} following <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Go-Live.sec'>Go-Live</a>.

[FootNote A12]=This is particularly customer-friendly. <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a>s generally prefer delivery or the effective date.

Life.Term.2.2.sec=The <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Maintenance_Term.sec'>Maintenance Term</a> will renew automatically for a period of the same duration unless <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> gives written notice of its intent not to renew {MaintenanceTerm.AutomaticRenewalUnlessNotice.Days} before the end of the current <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Maintenance_Term.sec'>Maintenance Term</a>.

Life.Term.2.3.sec=After the {MaintenanceGuaranteedRenewalCycles.#} renewal of the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Maintenance_Term.sec'>Maintenance Term</a>, <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> may refuse further renewal by written notice {MaintenanceGuaranteedRenewalCycles.EndNoticePeriod.Days} before the next renewal date.

Life.Term.2.=[G/Z/para/s3]

Life.Term.=[G/Z/ol-a/2]

Life.TerminationCause.Ti=Termination for Cause

Life.TerminationCause.sec=Either party may terminate this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> for the other’s material breach by written notice specifying in detail the nature of the breach, effective in 30 days unless the other party first cures such breach, or effective immediately if the breach is not subject to cure.

Life.TerminationCause.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

Life.TerminationConvenience.Ti=Termination for Convenience

Life.TerminationConvenience.sec=<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> may terminate this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> for convenience at any time before <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Go-Live.sec'>Go-Live</a> upon {Termination.ForConvenienceByCustomer.Notice.Days}’ advanced written notice. On the date of such termination, <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> shall pay <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> an early termination fee of {Termination.ForConvenienceByCustomer.TerminationFee.%} of the fees for <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customization_Services.sec'>Customization Services</a> not yet performed.

Life.TerminationConvenience.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

Life.TerminationEffect.Ti=Effects of Termination

Life.TerminationEffect.sec=Upon termination of this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> or <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.License_Term.sec'>License Term</a>, <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> shall cease all use of the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a> and delete, destroy, or return all copies of the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a>, <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Documentation.sec'>Documentation</a>, and Deposit Material (as defined in Subsection {SourceCodeEscrow.Deposit.Xnum}(a) above) in its possession or control. The following will survive termination or expiration of this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a>: (a) any obligation of <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> to pay fees incurred before termination; (b) Articles and Sections {License.Restrict.Xnum} (Restrictions on Software Rights) {IP.Xnum} (IP & Feedback), {ConfInfo.Xnum} (Confidential Information), {SoftwareAudit.Xnum} (Software Audit), {Warrant.Limit.Xnum} (Warranty Disclaimers), {Indemnify.Xnum} (Indemnification), and {LimitLiability.Xnum} (Limitation of Liability); and (c) any other provision of this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> that must survive to fulfill its essential purpose.

Life.TerminationEffect.=[G/Z/ol-a/2]

Misc.Ti=MISCELLANEOUS

Misc.Independent.Ti=Independent Contractors

Misc.Independent.sec=The parties are independent contractors and shall so represent themselves in all regards. Neither party is the agent of the other, and neither may make commitments on the other’s behalf. The parties agree that no <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> employee or contractor will be an employee of <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a>.

Misc.Independent.=[G/Z/ol/Base] 

Misc.CustomerUsers.Ti=Users

Misc.CustomerUsers.sec=<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> is responsible and liable for the acts and omissions of <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.User.sec'>Users</a> related to this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> and to the products and services provided pursuant to this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a>, as if they were <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a>’s own acts and omissions.

Misc.CustomerUsers.=[G/Z/ol/Base] 

Misc.Notice.Ti=Notices

Misc.Notice.0.sec=Notices pursuant to this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> shall be sent to the addresses below, or to such others as either party may provide in writing. Such notices will be deemed received at such addresses upon the earlier of (a) actual receipt or (b) delivery in person, by fax with written confirmation of receipt, or by certified mail return receipt requested.

Misc.Notice.1.sec=For <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a>: {Vendor.Notice.Block}

Misc.Notice.2.sec=For <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a>: {Customer.Notice.Block}

Misc.Notice.=[G/Z/ol-bullet/s2]

Misc.ForceMajeure.Ti=Force Majeure

Misc.ForceMajeure.sec=No delay, failure, or default, other than a failure to pay fees when due, will constitute a breach of this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> to the extent caused by acts of war, terrorism, hurricanes, earthquakes, other acts of God or of nature, strikes or other labor disputes, riots or other acts of civil disorder, embargoes, or other causes beyond the performing party’s reasonable control.

Misc.ForceMajeure.=[G/Z/ol/Base] 

Misc.Assign.Ti=Assignment & Successors

Misc.Assign.sec=Neither party may assign this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> or any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the other’s express written consent. Except to the extent forbidden in this Section {Misc.Assign.Xnum}, this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties’ respective successors and assigns.

Misc.Assign.=[G/Z/ol/Base] 

Misc.Sever.Ti=Severability

Misc.Sever.sec=To the extent permitted by applicable law, the parties hereby waive any provision of law that would render any clause of this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> invalid or otherwise unenforceable in any respect. In the event that a provision of this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> is held to be invalid or otherwise unenforceable, such provision will be interpreted to fulfill its intended purpose to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, and the remaining provisions of this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> will continue in full force and effect.

Misc.Sever.=[G/Z/ol/Base] 

Misc.Waive.Ti=No Waiver

Misc.Waive.sec=Neither party will be deemed to have waived any of its rights under this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> by lapse of time or by any statement or representation other than by an authorized representative in an explicit written waiver. No waiver of a breach of this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> will constitute a waiver of any other breach of this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a>.

Misc.Waive.=[G/Z/ol/Base] 

Misc.GovtRestrictedRights.Ti=Government Restricted Rights

Misc.GovtRestrictedRights.sec=The <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a> is provided with Restricted Rights. Use, duplication, or disclosure for or by the government of the United States, including without limitation any of its agencies or instrumentalities, is subject to restrictions set forth, as applicable: (i) in subparagraphs (a) through (d) of the Commercial Computer Software-Restricted Rights clause at FAR 52.227-19; or (ii) in similar clauses in other federal regulations, including the NASA FAR supplement. The contractor or manufacturer is <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a>. <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> shall not remove or deface any restricted rights notice or other legal notice appearing in the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a> or on any packaging or other media associated with the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a>.

Misc.GovtRestrictedRights.=[G/Z/ol/Base] 

Misc.Bankruptcy.Ti=Bankruptcy Rights

Misc.Bankruptcy.sec=The rights and licenses granted to <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> in Section {License.Grant.Xnum} (License), the last sentence of Section {License.Document.Xnum} (Documentation), and Section {SourceCodeEscrow.License.Xnum} (Escrow License) above (collectively, the “License Provisions”) are licenses to “intellectual property” rights, as defined in Section 365(n) of the United States Bankruptcy Code (11 U.S.C. Sections 101, et seq.). If <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> is subject to any proceeding under the United States Bankruptcy Code, and <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Vendor.sec'>Vendor</a> as debtor in possession or its trustee in bankruptcy rejects this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a>, <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> may, pursuant to 11 U.S.C. Section 365(n)(1) and (2), retain any and all rights granted to it under the License Provisions to the maximum extent permitted by law. This Section {Misc.Bankruptcy.Xnum} will not be construed to limit or restrict any right or remedy not set forth in this Section {Misc.Bankruptcy.Xnum}, including without limitation the right to retain any license or authority this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> grants pursuant to any provision other than the License Provisions.

Misc.Bankruptcy.=[G/Z/ol/Base] 

Misc.LawAndForum.Ti=Choice of Law & Jurisdiction

Misc.LawAndForum.sec=This <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> will be governed solely by the internal laws of {Law.State.the}, including without limitation applicable federal law, without reference to: (a) any conflicts of law principle that would apply the substantive laws of another jurisdiction to the parties’ rights or duties; (b) the 1980 United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods; or (c) other international laws. The parties consent to the personal and exclusive jurisdiction of {Dispute.Forum.USDC.cl}. This Section {Misc.LawAndForum.Xnum} governs all claims arising out of or related to this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a>, including without limitation tort claims.

Misc.LawAndForum.=[G/Z/ol/Base] 

Misc.AnnexPriority.Ti=Conflicts

Misc.AnnexPriority.sec=In the event of any conflict between Attachment A or Attachment B and this main body of this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a>, this main body will govern.

Misc.AnnexPriority.=[G/Z/ol/Base] 

Misc.CommonDrafting.Ti=Construction

Misc.CommonDrafting.sec=The parties agree that the terms of this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> result from negotiations between them. This <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> will not be construed in favor of or against either party by reason of authorship.

Misc.CommonDrafting.=[G/Z/ol/Base] 

Misc.TechExport.Ti=Technology Export

Misc.TechExport.sec=<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> shall not: (a) permit any third party to access or use the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a> in violation of any U.S. law or regulation; or (b) export the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a> or otherwise remove it from the United States except in compliance with all applicable U.S. laws and regulations. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Customer.sec'>Customer</a> shall not permit any third party to access or use the <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Software.sec'>Software</a> in, or export it to, a country subject to a United States embargo (as of the Effective Date, Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Sudan, and Syria).

Misc.TechExport.=[G/Z/ol/Base]

Misc.EntireAgreement.Ti=Entire Agreement

Misc.EntireAgreement.sec=This <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> sets forth the entire agreement of the parties and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous writings, negotiations, and discussions with respect to its subject matter. Neither party has relied upon any such prior or contemporaneous communications.

Misc.EntireAgreement.=[G/Z/ol/Base] 

Misc.Counterpart.Ti=Execution in Counterparts

Misc.Counterpart.sec=This <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> may be executed in one or more counterparts. Each counterpart will be an original, but all such counterparts will constitute a single instrument.

Misc.Counterpart.=[G/Z/ol/Base] 

Misc.Amend.Ti=Amendment

Misc.Amend.sec=This <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> may not be amended except through a written agreement by authorized representatives of each party.

Misc.Amend.=[G/Z/ol/Base] 


Sign.By.0.sec=IN WITNESS THEREOF, the parties have executed this <a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a> as of the Effective Date.

Note=The structure of this document comes from an Outline:


Def.Xnum=<a class="xref" href='#Def.Sec'>1</a>

Def.Specifications.Xnum=<a class="xref" href='#Def.Secifications.sec'>8</a>

License.Xnum=<a class="xref" href='#License.Sec'>2</a>

License.Grant.Xnum={License.Xnum}.<a class="xref" href='#License.Grant.Sec'>1</a>

License.Restrict.Xnum={License.Xnum}.<a class="xref" href='#License.Restrict.Sec'>2</a>

License.Deliver.Xnum={License.Xnum}.<a class="xref" href='#License.Deliver.Sec'>3</a>

License.Document.Xnum={License.Xnum}.<a class="xref" href='#License.Document.Sec'>4</a>


Customize.Xnum=<a class="xref" href='#Customize.Sec'>3</a>

Customize.Perform.Xnum={Customize.Xnum}.<a class="xref" href='#Customize.Perform.Sec'>1</a>

Customize.Deliver.Xnum={Customize.Xnum}.<a class="xref" href='#Customize.Deliver.Sec'>2</a>


Maintain.Xnum=<a class="xref" href='#Maintain.Sec'>4</a>

Maintain.Perform.Xnum={Maintain.Xnum}.<a class="xref" href='#Maintain.Sec'>1</a>


Compensate.Xnum=<a class="xref" href='#Compensate.Sec'>5</a>

IP.Xnum=<a class="xref" href='#IP.Sec'>6</a>


ConfInfo.Xnum=<a class="xref" href='#ConfInfo.Sec'>7</a>

ConfInfo.NDA.Xnum={ConfInfo.Xnum}.<a class="xref" href='#ConfInfo.NDA.Sec'>2</a>


SoftwareAudit.Xnum=<a class="xref" href='#SoftwareAudit.Sec'>8</a>

SourceCodeEscrow.Xnum=<a class="xref" href='#SourceCodeEscrow.Sec'>9</a>

SourceCodeEscrow.Contract.Xnum={SourceCodeEscrow.Xnum}.<a class="xref" href='#SourceCodeEscrow.Contract.Sec'>1</a>

SourceCodeEscrow.Deposit.Xnum=<a class="xref" href='#SourceCodeEscrow.Deposit.Sec'>2</a>

SourceCodeEscrow.License.Xnum={SourceCodeEscrow.Xnum}.<a class="xref" href='#SourceCodeEscrow.License.Sec'>3</a>


Warrant.Xnum=<a class="xref" href='#Warrant.Sec'>10</a>

Warrant.Vendor.Xnum={Warrant.Xnum}.<a class="xref" href='#Warrant.Vendor.Sec'></a>

Warrant.Mutual.Xnum={Warrant.Xnum}.<a class="xref" href='#Warrant.Mutual.Sec'></a>

Warrant.Limit.Xnum={Warrant.Xnum}.<a class="xref" href='#Warrant.Limit.Sec'></a>

Indemnify.Xnum=<a class="xref" href='#Indemnify.Sec'>11</a>

Indemnify.ByVendor.Xnum={Indemnify.Xnum}.<a class="xref" href='#Indemnify.ByVendor.Sec'>1</a>

Indemnify.Mutual.Xnum={Indemnify.Xnum}.<a class="xref" href='#Indemnify.Mutual.Sec'>2</a>

Indemnify.LawSuit.Xnum={Indemnify.Xnum}.<a class="xref" href='#Indemnify.LawSuit.Sec'>3</a>



LimitLiability.Xnum=<a class="xref" href='#LimitLiability.Sec'>12</a>

LimitLiability.Cap.Xnum={LimitLiability.Xnum}.<a class="xref" href='#LimitLiability.Cap.Sec'>1</a>

LimitLiability.ConsequentialDamages.Xnum={LimitLiability.Xnum}.<a class="xref" href='#LimitLiability. ConsequentialDamages.Sec'>2</a>

LimitLiability.Except.Xnum={LimitLiability.Xnum}.<a class="xref" href='#LimitLiability. Except.Sec'>3</a>


Life.Xnum=<a class="xref" href='#Life.Sec'>13</a>

Life.TerminationCause.Xnum={Life.Xnum}.<a class="xref" href='#Life.TerminationCause.Sec'>1</a>


Misc.Xnum=<a class="xref" href='#Misc.Sec'>14</a>

Misc.Assign.Xnum={Misc.Xnum}.<a class="xref" href='#Misc.Assign.Sec'>5</a>

Misc.Bankruptcy.Xnum={Misc.Xnum}.<a class="xref" href='#Misc.Bankruptcy.Sec'>9</a>

Misc.LawAndForum.Xnum={Misc.Xnum}.<a class="xref" href='#Misc.LawAndForum.Sec'>10</a>












Def.Agreement.sec=<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Agreement.sec'>Agreement</a>

Def.Confidential_Information.sec=<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Confidential_Information.sec'>Confidential Information</a>

Def.Discloser.sec=<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Discloser.sec'>Discloser</a>

Def.Feedback.sec=<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Feedback.sec'>Feedback</a>

Def.Recipient.sec=<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Recipient.sec'>Recipient</a>

Def.Escrow_Agent.sec=<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Escrow_Agent.sec'>Escrow Agent</a>

Def.Escrow_Agreement.sec=<a class='definedterm' href='#Def.Escrow_Agreement.sec'>Escrow Agreement</a>
 
Annex.sec=<center><b>ATTACHMENT A</b></center><br>{Annex.Customization.Doc}<center><b>ATTACHMENT B</b></center><br>{Annex.EscrowAgreement.Doc}

Annex.Customization.=[G/TechContractsAcademy-SoftwareLicense/Annex/Customization/0.md]

Annex.EscrowAgreement.=[G/TechContractsAcademy-SoftwareLicense/Annex/EscrowAgreement/0.md]
