https://www.100andchange.org/100&Change-Organization-Readiness-Tool.pdf

Ti=100&Change Organization Readiness Tool

0.1.sec=Thank you for your interest in 100&Change. Before launching the competition this year, we are providing this organizational readiness tool, to help you understand characteristics of the most competitive organizations and proposals. Once we have launched the competition website, you will be provided an interactive version of this survey. We encourage you to use this tool now to consider how well-suited your organization(s) and/or proposal are for this competition.

0.2.sec=Following each survey question, you will find a series of optional responses. Each response is indicated next to an empty box (❑). As you read through those options, choose the response that is most relevant to your organization(s) or team. Underneath each response, you will find italicized content that will help inform your eligibility and/or level of readiness or competitiveness for 100&Change. We encourage you to read and select an appropriate response to every question. Our goal is to provide this information so that you may better prepare and/or avoid planning to participate, if you are not ready.

0.3.sec=Last, throughout the organizational readiness tool, we have provided embedded links. Those links are indicated by bold and underlined font. Some of those links are active, while others are not. Any inactive link will become active when the competition is launched.

0.=[G/Z/paras/s3]

1.Ti=Which of the following best describes your organization?

1.0.sec=Two or more organizations may collaborate on a single application. However, a single legal entity must assume responsibility and authority for the use and reporting of any grant funded project. That entity must be able to exercise (in fact and law direction) control and supervision over the project and use of grant funds. Select the best response for the Principal Organization that would have legal responsibility and authority over any grant provided by the MacArthur Foundation. Select one.

1.1.box=❑ A 501(c)3, 509(a)(1) or (2), or equivalent nonprofit organization, including NGOs, foundations, and universities.

1.1.comment=We welcome applications from charitable organizations worldwide.

1.2.box=❑ A for-profit organization, including limited liability corporations, benefit corporations, or hybrid organizations.

1.2.comment=We welcome applications from for-profit corporations but not single person LLCs. However, you must ensure that any grant funds will be used solely for charitable purposes and will not result in more than incidental private benefit to other people, organizations, or entities that may be a necessary byproduct of the accomplishment of the charitable purpose. To learn more, about our legal requirements, watch this webinar on Common Legal Challenges for applicants and read our Private Benefit Rule.

1.3.box=❑ A government entity.

1.3.comment=Sorry, Government entities are not eligible for the 100&Change competition.

1.4.box=❑ An individual.

1.4.comment=Sorry, individuals are not eligible for the 100&Change competition. This includes single-person LLCs.

1.1.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

1.2.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

1.3.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

1.4.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

1.=[G/Z/ol/s4]

2.Ti=What is the size of your team for this project?

2.0.sec=Select one.

2.1.box=❑ 1 person.

2.1.comment=Sorry. Neither individuals nor individual LLC’s are eligible for the 100&Change competition.

2.2.box=❑ 2 to 10 people.

2.2.comment=While small teams are welcome to apply, we encourage you to consider the amount of time and resources required to be competitive. The majority of applicants reported spending over 40 hours completing the prior 100&Change application in 2016. Any Finalists that are selected will be required to complete a range of additional activities, including but not limited to: a detailed revised proposal; in-person meetings and workshops with intermediary organizations; external communications through the MacArthur Foundation (e.g., blogs); and other activities to be defined. Many Finalists from the previous 100&Change program reported that the process was both time and resource intensive. Consider whether you have the capacity to take on the responsibilities of a Finalist.

2.3.box=❑ Over 10 people.

2.3.comment=Great. However, even though you may have a large team, we encourage you to consider the amount of time and resources required to be competitive. The majority of applicants reported spending over 40 hours completing the prior 100&Change application in 2016. Any Finalists that are selected will be required to complete a range of additional activities, including but not limited to: a detailed revised proposal; in-person meetings and workshops with intermediary organizations; external communications through the MacArthur Foundation (e.g., blogs); and other activities to be defined. Many Finalists from the previous 100&Change program reported that the process was both time and resource intensive. Consider whether you have the capacity to take on the responsibilities of a Finalist.

2.1.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

2.2.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

2.3.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

2.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

3.Ti=Which of the following best describes the stage of your solution and your team’s collective experience around implementation?

3.0.sec=Select one.

3.1.box=❑ Research and ideation: Your team is in the process of developing a new solution. You have not yet started implementation of that solution with any target beneficiaries.

3.1.comment=The 100&Change competition prioritizes solutions that have a strong evidence base and are delivered by teams with the right skills, capacity, and experience. Solutions that are early in their development or evolution without an existing evidence base are unlikely to be competitive. To understand our approach to reviewing solutions at this stage, you may read this blog post, explaining how similar solutions at this stage were screened during administrative review in 2016.

3.2.box=❑ Proof of concept: Your team has developed a new solution and is in the process of testing and refining it with a small number of target beneficiaries - you are beginning to develop evidence of impact.

3.2.comment=The 100&Change competition prioritizes solutions that have a strong evidence base and are delivered by teams with the right skills, capacity, and experience. Solutions that are early in their development or evolution without a strong existing evidence base are unlikely to be competitive in this process. In fact, solutions that are too early in their project timeline and solutions with weak evidence of effectiveness are likely to be screened out of the competition. To understand our approach to reviewing solutions at this stage, you may read this blog post, explaining how similar solutions at this stage were screened during administrative review in 2016.

3.3.box=❑ Scaling: You have evidence that your solution achieves impact, and your team has experience delivering the solution. You are in the process of expanding and adapting the solution to a greater number of target beneficiaries, potentially in new geographies. You are continuing to monitor for impact and refine the approach but have yet to achieve large-scale implementation.

3.3.comment=Great. We are looking for solutions that have a strong existing evidence base and a team that has demonstrated an ability to adapt and grow a solution. We will ask for more information about your team and your ability to scale in the Application.

3.4.box=❑ Operating at scale: You have evidence that your solution achieves impact, and your team has experience delivering the solution. You are delivering your solution at scale and are not in the process of expanding target beneficiaries substantially. You are continuing to monitor for impact and refine the approach.

3.4.comment=Great. We are looking for solutions that have a strong existing evidence base and a team that has demonstrated an ability to adapt and grow a solution. We will ask for more information about your team and your history of scaling in the Application.

3.1.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

3.2.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

3.3.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

3.4.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

3.=[G/Z/ol/s4]

4.Ti=What is your organization’s annual operating budget?

4.0.sec=Select One.

4.1.box=❑ Less than $5 million (USD).

4.1.comment=We consider applicants of any size, but we have found that organizations often have trouble absorbing and effectively deploying grants that are significantly larger than their current annual operating budgets. We will factor that consideration into the initial administrative review process.<br>We strongly encourage you to think critically about whether or not your organization would be able to take on such a large amount of capital over only a few years.

4.2.box=❑ More than $5 million (USD).

4.2.comment=We welcome applicants of any size but have generally found that larger organizations are more likely to effectively absorb and deploy very large grants. While this is not true for all organizations, we encourage you to think critically about whether or not your organization would be able to take on such a large amount of capital over only a few years, particularly if a $100 million (USD) grant would dramatically increase your annual operating budget.

4.1.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

4.2.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

4.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

5.Ti=If you intend to submit an application as a partnership between two or more organizations, do you have a fully-executed Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between all of the parties? Select one.

5.1.box=❑ Yes.

5.1.comment=Great. A fully-executed Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) detailing any binding arrangement between the parties is required as part of the Application. Read the Requirements Regarding any Proposed Collaboration before registering.

5.2.box=❑ No.

5.2.comment=Organizations proposing to work together must demonstrate through a fully-executed Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) detailing any binding arrangement between the parties. Those organizations must agree upon a single eligible entity or organization that will serve as the Principle Organization and/or Grantee, if selected, that will maintain direction, control, and supervision of the project and management of all grant funds. The Principal Organization will be responsible for all reporting requirements. Any fully-executed MOU detailing any binding arrangement between the parties will be required as part of the Application. Read the Requirements Regarding Any Proposed Collaboration before registering.

5.3.box=❑ Not Applicable (N/A): I do not intend to submit an application as a partnership.

5.3.comment=A single organization that is capable of receiving and managing a grant of $100 million (USD) over only a few years is eligible to apply. If such an organization has that capacity, there is no requirement to partner with other organizations.

5.1.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

5.2.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

5.3.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

5.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

6.Ti=Do you intend to take on any of the following activities as part of your proposal?

6.0.sec=Select all that apply.

6.1.box=❑ Basic and/or clinical research.

6.1.comment=The 100&Change competition will not consider a project focused on basic and/or clinical research. We define this as any project that is in the early or ongoing stages of testing a research hypothesis.

6.2.box=❑ Developing and/or validating a new product, tool, or methodology.

6.2.comment=While a portion of your $100 million (USD) budget may be allocated to developing a tool or methodology, 100&Change will not support a project that is solely focused on this type of work. We define this as any project that is in the early stages of testing a new product or platform or any project in the “proof of concept” stage, which is unlikely to advance past administrative review.

6.3.box=❑ Lobbying.

6.3.comment=Grant funds may not be used for lobbying purposes as defined in section 4945 and related regulations unless the Grantee is a 501 (c) (3) and 509 (a) (1) or (2) organization and complies with the applicable regulations. Read our Lobbying Policy for more information.

6.4.box=❑ Establishing a grantmaking program.

6.4.comment=The 100&Change competition will not consider a project that involves re-granting a large percentage of the $100 million (USD) award to other organizations or entities.

6.5.box=❑ Establishing an investment fund.

6.5.comment=The 100&Change competition will not consider a project involving the investment of a large percentage of the grant funds.

6.6.box=❑ Providing direct scholarships to individuals.

6.6.comment=The 100&Change competition is very unlikely to consider a project that provides direct scholarships to individuals.

6.7.box=❑ None of the above.

6.7.comment=Great. The 100&Change competition is very unlikely to consider a project that includes any of the above activities.

6.1.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

6.2.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

6.3.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

6.4.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

6.5.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

6.6.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

6.7.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

6.=[G/Z/ol/s7]

7.Ti=The 100&Change Application includes questions about the evidence base for your solution.

7.0.sec=Which of the following best describes the evidence base related to your project? Select one.

7.1.box=❑ We have a theoretical logic model for our solution, but we have yet to deliver it in the field.

7.1.comment=The 100&Change competition prioritizes solutions that are currently verifiable. Solutions that are early in their development or evolution without an existing evidence base are unlikely to be competitive. In fact, solutions that are too early in their project timeline and solutions with weak evidence of effectiveness are likely to be screened out of the competition. To understand our approach to reviewing solutions at this stage, you may read this blog post, explaining how similar solutions at this stage were screened during administrative review in 2016.

7.2.box=❑ We (or our partners) are currently delivering this solution, but we do not formally track outcomes or collect beneficiary feedback (as relevant).

7.2.comment=The 100&Change competition prioritizes solutions that are currently tested, and we view measurement and evaluation as critical elements of testing. Solutions without an existing evidence base are unlikely to be competitive. In fact, solutions with weak evidence of effectiveness are likely to be screened out of the competition. To understand our approach to reviewing solutions at this stage, you may read this blog post, explaining how similar solutions at this stage were screened during administrative review in 2016.

7.3.box=❑ We (or our partners) formally collect and document qualitative feedback, including beneficiary feedback (as relevant).

7.3.comment=While qualitative feedback is important, the 100&Change competition prioritizes solutions that have more robust evidence of impact, such as an outcomes assessment or formal evaluation.<br>Solutions without an existing evidence base that demonstrate impact are unlikely to be competitive. In fact, solutions with weak evidence of effectiveness are likely to be screened out of the competition. To understand our approach to reviewing solutions at this stage, you may read this blog post, explaining how similar solutions at this stage were screened during administrative review in 2016.

7.4.box=❑ We (or our partners) routinely collect qualitative and quantitative data to assess our progress.

7.4.comment=While tracking qualitative and quantitative data is a great first step for assessing a solution, these activities alone are not enough to be able to attribute impact to a particular solution. Solutions without a more robust evidence base are unlikely to be competitive, but we are planning to launch another round of 100&Change within three years and encourage you to apply in the future after conducting a more rigorous outcomes assessment or formal evaluation.<br>Solutions with insufficient evidence of effectiveness are likely to be screened out of the competition. To understand our approach to reviewing solutions at this stage, you may read this blog post, explaining how similar solutions at this stage were screened during administrative review in 2016.

7.5.box=❑ We (or our partners) have conducted internal evaluations or outcome assessments for programs or pilots related to this project.

7.5.comment=Great. The 100&Change competition prioritizes solutions that are currently verifiable, so we will ask you to provide greater detail of your evidence base in the Application.

7.6.box=❑ There has been a non-Randomized Control Trial (RCT) for external evaluation or outcomes assessment for programs or pilots related to the project.

7.6.comment=Great. The 100&Change competition prioritizes solutions that are currently verifiable, so we will ask you to provide greater detail of your evidence base in the Application.

7.7.box=❑ There has been an external assessment of impact (e.g. RCT; quasi-experimental design; contribution analysis; collective impact) for programs or pilots related to this project.

7.7.comment=Great. The 100&Change competition prioritizes solutions that are currently verifiable. So, we will ask you to provide greater detail of your evidence base in the Application.

7.1.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

7.2.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

7.3.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

7.4.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

7.5.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

7.6.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

7.7.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

7.=[G/Z/ol/s7]

8.Ti=How much funding do you intend to seek for your project? Select one.

8.1.box=❑ $100 million or more (USD).

8.1.comment=We intend to make a $100 million (USD) grant through this competition, but there will be space in the Application to denote if your project might need additional funding from other sources.

8.2.box=❑ $90 to $99 million (USD).

8.2.comment=Applications for amounts under $100 million (USD) will not be considered. Adjust your Application to meet the full required funding amount.

8.3.box=❑ Less than $90 million (USD).

8.3.comment=Applications for amounts under $100 million (USD) will not be considered. We believe some problems can't be solved by grants of the size that foundations typically provide. According to The Foundation Center, the average size of a foundation grant was about $138,000 in 2012. By funding at a level far above what's typical available in philanthropy, we can address problems and support solutions that are radically different in scale, scope, and complexity. $100 million (USD) is a large enough grant to focus on a serious problem and its solution in a meaningful and lasting way.

8.1.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

8.2.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

8.3.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

8.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

9.Ti=In what language do you intend to submit your application?

9.0.sec=Select one.

9.1.box=❑ English.

9.1.comment=Great. The entire Application (including any financial documents) must be in English to be considered.

9.2.box=❑ Another language (other than English).

9.2.comment=The entire Application (including any financial documents) must be in English to be considered.

9.1.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

9.2.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

9.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

10.Ti=Do you have three years of audited financials?

10.0.sec=Select one.

10.1.box=❑ Yes.

10.1.comment=Great. We will ask you to share three years of audited financials as part of the Application.

10.2.box=❑ No.

10.2.sec=Your Application must include three years of audited financials to be considered. All financial forms (including column and row headings and footnotes) must be in English.

10.1.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

10.2.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

10.=[G/Z/ol/s2]


11.Ti=Which of the following best describes the type of support that you will seek through the 100&Change competition?

11.0.sec=Select one.

11.1.box=❑ General, unrestricted operating support.

11.1.comment=While the 100&Change competition will provide some overhead cost support, we will not fund proposals for general operating support through this process. Read our Indirect Cost Policy for more information.

11.2.box=❑ Support for a specific and time-bound project.

11.2.comment=Great. We will ask you to share your project details in the Application. Note that, while proposals for general operating support are ineligible for the 100&Change competition, we do fund indirect costs. Read our Indirect Cost Policy for more information.

11.1.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

11.2.=[G/MacArthur100Change/Widget/CheckBox.md]

11.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

=[G/Z/ol/11]
