
1.Ti=SECURE-1. SECURITY PRACTICES

1.sec=Entities MUST apply appropriate and industry-accepted information security STANDARDS, guidelines, and practices to the systems that support their identity functions and services.

2.Ti=SECURE-2. DATA INTEGRITY

2.sec=Entities MUST implement industry-accepted practices to protect the confidentiality and integrity of identity data—including authentication data and attribute values—during the execution of all digital identity management functions, and across the entire data lifecycle (collection through destruction).

3.Ti=SECURE-3. CREDENTIAL REPRODUCTION

3.sec=Entities that issue or manage credentials and tokens MUST implement industry-accepted processes to protect against their unauthorized disclosure and reproduction.

4.Ti=SECURE-4. CREDENTIAL PROTECTION

4.sec=Entities that issue or manage credentials and tokens MUST implement industry-accepted data integrity practices to enable individuals and other entities to verify the source of credential and token data.

5.Ti=SECURE-5. CREDENTIAL ISSUANCE

5.sec=Entities that issue or manage credentials and tokens MUST do so in a manner designed to assure that they are granted to the appropriate and intended USER(s) only. Where registration and credential issuance are executed by separate entities, procedures for ensuring accurate exchange of registration and issuance information that are commensurate with the stated assurance level MUST be included in business agreements and operating policies.

6.Ti=SECURE-6. CREDENTIAL UNIQUENESS

6.sec=Entities that issue or manage credentials MUST ensure that each account to credential pairing is uniquely identifiable within its namespace for authentication purposes.

7.Ti=SECURE-7. TOKEN CONTROL

7.sec=Entities that authenticate a USER MUST employ industry-accepted secure authentication protocols to demonstrate the USER's control of a valid token.

8.Ti=SECURE-8. MULTIFACTOR AUTHENTICATION

8.sec=Entities that authenticate a USER MUST offer authentication mechanisms which augment or are alternatives to a password.

9.Ti=SECURE-9. AUTHENTICATION RISK ASSESSMENT

9.sec=Entities MUST have a risk assessment process in place for the selection of authentication mechanisms and supporting processes.

10.Ti=SECURE-10. UPTIME

10.sec=Entities that provide and conduct digital identity management functions MUST have established policies and processes in place to maintain their stated assurances for availability of their services.

11.Ti=SECURE-11. KEY MANAGEMENT

11.sec=Entities that use cryptographic solutions as part of identity management MUST implement key management policies and processes that are consistent with industry-accepted practices.

12.Ti=SECURE-12. RECOVERY AND REISSUANCE

12.sec=Entities that issue credentials and tokens MUST implement methods for reissuance, updating, and recovery of credentials and tokens that preserve the security and assurance of the original registration and credentialing operations.

13.Ti=SECURE-13. REVOCATION

13.sec=Entities that issue credentials or tokens MUST have processes and procedures in place to invalidate credentials and tokens.

14.Ti=SECURE-14. SECURITY LOGS

14.sec=Entities conducting digital identity management functions MUST log their transactions and security events, in a manner that supports system audits and, where necessary, security investigations and regulatory requirements. Timestamp synchronization and detail of logs MUST be appropriate to the level of risk associated with the environment and transactions.

15.Ti=SECURE-15. SECURITY AUDITS

15.sec=Entities MUST conduct regular audits of their compliance with their own information security policies and procedures, and any additional requirements of law, including a review of their logs, incident reports and credential loss occurrences, and MUST periodically review the effectiveness of their policies and procedures in light of that data.

=[Z/ol-none/15]
