Ti=Independence, Impartiality, and Qualifications of the Court and Its Judges

1.sec=The court and the judges should have judicial independence to decide the dispute according to the facts and the law, including freedom from improper internal and external influence.

2.sec=Judges should have reasonable tenure in office. Nonprofessional members of the court should be designated by a procedure assuring their independence from the parties, the dispute, and other persons interested in the resolution.

3.sec=The court should be impartial. A judge or other person having decisional authority must not participate if there is reasonable ground to doubt such person’s impartiality. There should be a fair and effective procedure for addressing contentions of judicial bias.

4.sec=Neither the court nor the judge should accept communications about the case from a party in the absence of other parties, except for communications concerning proceedings without notice and for routine procedural administration. When communication between the court and a party occurs in the absence of another party, that party should be promptly advised of the content of the communication.

5.sec=The court should have substantial legal knowledge and experience.

=[G/Z/ol/s5]

Comment:

P-1A Independence can be considered a more objective characteristic and impartiality a more subjective one, but these attributes are closely connected.

P-1B External influences may emanate from members of the executive or legislative branch, prosecutors, or persons with economic interests, etc. Internal influence could emanate from other officials of the judicial system.

P-1C This Principle recognizes that typically judges serve for an extensive period of time, usually their entire careers. However, in some systems most judges assume the bench only after careers as lawyers and some judicial officials are designated for short periods. An objective of this Principle is to avoid the creation of ad hoc courts. The term “judge” includes any judicial or quasi-judicial official under the law of the forum.

P-1D A procedure for addressing questions of judicial bias is necessary only in unusual circumstances, but availability of the procedure is a reassurance to litigants, especially nationals of other countries. However, the procedure should not invite abuse through insubstantial claims of bias.

P-1E Proceedings without notice (ex parte proceedings) may be proper, for example in initially applying for a provisional remedy. See Principles 5.8 and 8. Proceedings after default are governed by Principle 15. Routine procedural administration includes, for example, specification of dates for submission of proposed evidence.

P-1F Principle 1.5 requires only that judges for transnational litigation be familiar with the law. It does not require the judge to have special knowledge of commercial or financial law, but familiarity with such matters would be desirable.

