Ti=General provisions

1.Ti=Notices

1.1.Ti=Method of notice

1.1.0.sec=The parties will give all notices and communications between the parties in writing by

1.1.1.sec=personal delivery

1.1.2.sec=a nationally-recognized, next-day courier service

1.1.3.sec=first-class registered or certified mail postage prepaid

1.1.00.sec=to the party's address specified in this agreement, or to the address that a party has notified to be its address for the purposes of this section.

1.1.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

1.1.secs={1.1.secs;or}

1.2.Ti=Receipt of notice

1.2.0.sec=A notice given under this agreement will be effective

1.2.1.sec=when the other party receives it, or

1.2.2.sec=if mailed, on the earlier of the day the other party receives it and the fifth business day after its mailing.

1.2.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

1.=[G/Z/ol/2]

2.Ti=Entire agreement

2.sec=This agreement represents the entire understanding between the parties with respect to its subject matter and supersedes any previous communication or agreements that may exist.

3.Ti=Counterparts

3.sec=This Agreement may be signed in counterparts, each of which will be deemed to be an original, but all of which, taken together, constitute one and the same agreement.

4.Ti=Assignment

4.sec=Neither party may assign this agreement without the other party's written consent.

5.Ti=Amendment

5.sec=This agreement can be amended only by a document in writing signed by both parties.

6.Ti=Waiver

6.sec=One party’s failure or neglect to enforce any of its rights under this agreement will not be deemed to be a waiver of that party's rights.

7.Ti=Severability

7.sec=If any part of this agreement is declared unenforceable or invalid, the remainder will continue to be valid and enforceable.

8.Ti=Governing law

8.sec=This agreement will be governed, construed, and enforced in accordance with the laws of {Law.Country}, without regard to its conflict of laws rules.

9.Ti=Termination

9.sec=Either party may terminate this agreement upon written notice to the other party.

10.Ti=Ownership

10.sec=Each party retains all interest and proprietary rights in the {_Confidential_Information} it discloses and in any information or materials that it or the other party derives from that {_Confidential_Information}.

11.Ti=No Warranty

11.sec=Neither party gives any warranties with respect to the {_Confidential_Information} it shares.

=[G/Z/ol/11]